                                          V IDEO P HY: Evaluating Physical Commonsense for
                                                          Video Generation


                                               Hritik Bansal∗1 Zongyu Lin∗1 Tianyi Xie†1 Zeshun Zong†1 Michal Yarom‡2
                                            Yonatan Bitton‡2 Chenfanfu Jiang1 Yizhou Sun1 Kai-Wei Chang1 Aditya Grover1
                                                                     1                                               2
                                                                         University of California Los Angeles            Google Research




arXiv:2406.03520v2 [cs.CV] 3 Oct 2024
                                                                              https://github.com/Hritikbansal/videophy



                                                                                                        Abstract
                                                    Recent advances in internet-scale video data pretraining have led to the development
                                                    of text-to-video generative models that can create high-quality videos across a broad
                                                    range of visual concepts, synthesize realistic motions and render complex objects.
                                                    Hence, these generative models have the potential to become general-purpose
                                                    simulators of the physical world. However, it is unclear how far we are from this
                                                    goal with the existing text-to-video generative models. To this end, we present
                                                    V IDEO P HY, a benchmark designed to assess whether the generated videos follow
                                                    physical commonsense for real-world activities (e.g. marbles will roll down when
                                                    placed on a slanted surface). Specifically, we curate diverse prompts that involve
                                                    interactions between various material types in the physical world (e.g., solid-solid,
                                                    solid-fluid, fluid-fluid). We then generate videos conditioned on these captions from
                                                    diverse state-of-the-art text-to-video generative models, including open models
                                                    (e.g., CogVideoX) and closed models (e.g., Lumiere, Dream Machine). Our human
                                                    evaluation reveals that the existing models severely lack the ability to generate
                                                    videos adhering to the given text prompts, while also lack physical commonsense.
                                                    Specifically, the best performing model, CogVideoX-5B, generates videos that
                                                    adhere to the caption and physical laws for 39.6% of the instances. V IDEO P HY
                                                    thus highlights that the video generative models are far from accurately simulating
                                                    the physical world. Finally, we propose an auto-evaluator, V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS,
                                                    to assess the performance reliably for the newly released models.


                                                                         Model Performance on VideoPhy Dataset
                                                CogVideoX-5B                                                       Figure 1: Model performance on the
                                                          Pika                                                     V IDEO P HY dataset using human evalua-
                                                 VideoCrafter2                                                     tion. We assess the physical commonsense
                                                CogVideoX-2B                                                       and semantic adherence to the conditioning
                                                         LaVIE                                                     caption in the generated videos. We find that
                                         Dream Machine (Luma)                                                      CogVideoX-5B can generate videos that fol-
                                                Lumiere-T2I2V
                                                          SVD                                                      low the caption and physics commonsense for
                                                    ZeroScope                                                      39.6% of the prompts, while the other mod-
                                                  Lumiere-T2V                                                      els are far behind (< 20%). This indicates
                                                        Gen-2                                                      that the existing models severely lack the abil-
                                                     OpenSora                                                      ity of being general-purpose physical world
                                                                 0        5    10   15   20   25   30    35   40   simulators.
                                                                     Accuracy Based on Human Evaluation (%)

                                            ∗†‡
                                                  Equal Contribution.


                                        Preprint.
                         Initial Frame     Middle Frame       Last Frame

                                                                             Prompt: Pouring milk into a cup.

             LaVIE                                                          Conversation of Mass Violation:
                                                                           The level of the milk in the cup does
                                                                                      not increase.

                                                                             Prompt: Shoveling sand into a
                                                                                       bucket.
             Gen-2                                                         Newton's First Law Violation: The
                                                                           sand in the front shifted without any
                                                                                     force by shovel.

                                                                           Prompt: Wood floats down a canal.

            OpenSora                                                       Solid Constitutive Law Violation:
                                                                            Rigid objects (wood) should not
                                                                             deform under small force load.



Figure 2: Illustration of poor physical commonsense by various T2V generative models. Here, we show
that the generated videos can violate a diverse range of laws pf physics such as conversation of mass, Newton’s
first law, and solid constitutive laws. In V IDEO P HY, we curate a wide range of prompts that would be used to
assess the physical commonsense of the T2V models.


1    Introduction
Recent advancements in pretraining on internet-scale video data [2, 112, 106, 104, 23] have led
to the development of various text-to-video (T2V) generative models such as Sora [64] that can
generate photo-realistic videos conditioned on a text prompt [7, 103, 21, 75, 91, 14, 46]. Specifically,
these models can generate complex scenes (e.g., ‘busy street in Japan’) and realistic motions (e.g.,
‘running’, ‘pouring’), making them amenable for understanding and simulating the physical world.
As humans, we develop an intuitive understanding of the object interactions through our experience
with the real-world, without any formal education in physics (also termed as intuitive physics) [26].
For instance, we can predict the trajectories of the billiard balls after an application of force. Recent
efforts [25, 18] have further utilized text-guided video generation to train agents that can act, plan,
and solve goals in the real world. In spite of the strong physical motivations of these works, it remains
unclear how well the generated videos from T2V models adhere to the laws of physics.
One might be tempted to assess the physical commonsense of generated videos by comparing them
with physical simulations as a ground truth. However, this is non-trivial, and no similar approaches
have been proposed yet. The main challenges include the lack of mature methods to accurately
generate 3D geometries from single-view images or video, which is essential for physical simulations.
Further, physical simulations usually require precise tuning of material parameters based on the
expertise of graphics researchers to match real-world dynamics. Recently, some efforts have been
made to tune simulation parameters from generated videos (e.g., [38, 60, 119, 70]). Nevertheless,
they depend on the physical plausibility of the generated videos themselves, which is again the
open question we want to address. Finally, the accurate lighting and rendering are also necessary to
convert physically simulated results into images and videos, yet these parameters are also unknown.
Most importantly, it should be noted that physical simulations are not equivalent to ground truth.
They are merely numerical solvers of differential equations that attempt to approximate and describe
real-world dynamics based on models proposed by researchers. Prior work such as VBench [40, 63]
introduced a comprehensive benchmark to evaluate various qualities of generated videos (e.g., motion
smoothness, background consistency) using existing models, but it does not specifically address the
generated videos’ adherence to physical laws. Therefore, existing benchmarks and metrics are either
unreliable or lack coverage for holistic evaluation of the physical commonsense capabilities.
To this end, we propose V IDEO P HY, a dataset designed to evaluate the adherence of generated
videos to physical commonsense in real-world scenarios. Specifically, we focus on the intuitive
understanding of the behavior and dynamics of various states of matter (solids, fluids) in the physical
world [79, 115, 10]. For instance, ‘water pouring into a glass’ will intuitively result in the water level
in the glass rising over time. As a result, we rely on human perception and experience in the physical
world to assess the adherence of the generated videos to physical laws instead of precise dynamical
equations, which are harder to assess. In Figure 2, we provide qualitative examples to illustrate
physical commonsense violations in the videos. Our dataset is constructed through a three-stage
pipeline that involves (a) prompting a large language model [73] to generate candidate captions that
depict interactions between diverse states of matter (e.g., solid-solid, solid-fluid, fluid-fluid), (b)


                                                          2
human verification of the generated captions, and (c) annotating the complexity in rendering objects
or synthesizing motions described in the captions based on physics simulation.
In total, V IDEO P HY comprises 688 high-quality, human-verified captions that will be used to generate
videos from T2V models. In addition, the dataset consists human-labeled annotations for physi-
cal commonsense of the generated videos. Specifically, we acquire generated videos from twelve
diverse T2V models including open models (e.g., OpenSora [75], SVD [12], VideoCrafter2 [21],
CogVideoX [113]) and closed models (e.g., Pika [78], Lumiere [7], Gen-2 [27], Dream Machine
[1]). Subsequently, we perform human evaluation on the generated videos for semantic adherence to
the conditioning text (e.g., do the videos follow the caption?) and physical commonsense (e.g., do
the videos follow physical laws intuitively?). Interestingly, we find that the existing T2V generative
models severely lack the capability to follow caption accurately and generate videos with physical
commonsense. Specifically, the best performing model, CogVideoX-5B, follows the text and gener-
ates physically accurate videos for 39.6% of the instances (§5). Our fine-grained analysis reveals that
current T2V models are particularly poor at generating physically plausible videos for prompts that
require solid-solid interaction (e.g., ball bouncing on the floor, hammer hits a nail). In Figure 1, we
compare the performance (i.e., accurate semantic adherence and physical commonsense) of various
T2V generative models on the V IDEO P HY dataset. In addition, we perform a detailed qualitative
analysis to study the modes of the failures for different models in detail (§5.2). In particular, we
observe that the models often struggle to accurately identify individual objects and comprehend their
material properties, which is essential for generating physically plausible dynamics. For instance, an
object recognized as a rigid body in the physical world should not deform over time.
Although human evaluation of semantic adherence and physical commonsense is reliable, it is both
expensive and difficult to scale. To address this challenge, we introduce V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS, an
open video-language model designed to assess the semantic adherence and physical commonsense of
generated videos using user queries grounded in text (§6). Specifically, we finetune V IDEO C ON [3],
a robust semantic adherence evaluator for real videos, on generated videos and human annotations
collected as a part of our dataset. Our results demonstrate that V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS outperforms
Gemini-Pro-Vision-1.5 [84], showing a 9 points improvement in semantic adherence and a 15 points
improvement in physical commonsense on unseen prompts. Further, we show that V IDEO C ON -
P HYSICS generalizes to unseen generative models, which established its reliability for evaluating
future generative models. Overall, the V IDEO P HY dataset aims to bridge the gap in understanding
physical commonsense in generated videos and enables scalable testing for upcoming T2V models.

2   V IDEO P HY Dataset
Our dataset, V IDEO P HY, aims to offer a robust evaluation benchmark for physical commonsense in
video generative models. Specifically, the dataset is curated with guidelines to cover (a) a wide range
of daily activities and objects in the physical world (e.g., rolling objects, pouring liquid into a glass),
(b) physical interactions between various material types (e.g., solid-solid or solid-fluid interactions),
and (c) the perceived complexity of rendering objects and motions under graphic simulation. For
instance, ketchup, which follows non-newtonian fluid dynamics [107], is harder to model and simulate
than water, which follows newtonian fluid dynamics, using traditional fluid simulators [15]. Under
the collection guidelines, we curate a list of text prompts that will be used for conditioning the
text-to-video generative models. Specifically, we follow the 3-stage pipeline to create the dataset.

LLM-Generated Captions (Stage 1). Here, we query a large language model, in our case GPT-4
[73], to generate a list of 1000 candidate captions depicting real-world dynamics. As the majority of
real-world dynamics involve solids or fluids, we broadly classify those dynamics into three categories:
solid-solid interactions, solid-fluid interactions, and fluid-fluid interactions. Specifically, we consider
fluid dynamics involving in-viscid and viscous flows—representative examples being water and
honey, respectively. On the other hand, we find that solids exhibit more diverse constitutive models,
including but not limited to rigid bodies, elastic materials, sands, metals, and snow. In total, we
prompt GPT-4 to generate 500 candidate captions for solid-solid and solid-fluid interactions, and 200
candidate captions for fluid-fluid interactions. We present the GPT-4 prompts in Appendix D.

Human Verification (Stage 2). Since LLM-generated captions may not adhere to our input query,
we perform a human verification step to filter bad generations. Specifically, the authors perform
human verification to ensure the quality and relevance of the captions, adhering to these criteria: (1)


                                                    3
   Category        Difficulty      Example Captions
                     Easy          Bottle topples off the table. ( rigid bodies )
  Solid-Solid
                     Hard          Scrubber scrubs a dirty dish. ( complex contacts )
                      Easy         Water flows down a circular drain. ( contacts with rigid bodies )
  Solid-Fluid
                      Hard         A swimmer splashing in the sea water. ( contacts with high-speed )
                      Easy         Rain splashing on a pond. ( mixing of same fluids )
  Fluid-Fluid
                      Hard         Ink spreading in still water. ( mixing of different fluids )
Table 1: Example captions in the V IDEO P HY dataset. Specifically, we design them to depict the interactions
between two states of matter (solid-solid, solid-fluid, fluid-fluid). We further classify the captions as easy or hard
based on the modeling and simulation complexity in the computer graphics. We highlight the reasoning behind
the easy and hard annotations by our expert annotators in the () .


Table 2: Statistics of the V IDEO P HY dataset.

             Statistic                       Number
          Total captions                       688
          Unique actions                       138
        Total T2V models                        12
      Total generated videos                  11330
       Human annotations                      36500
  Category (Interacting materials)               3
            Solid-Solid                        289
            Solid-Fluid                        291
            Fluid-Fluid                        108
 Category (Interaction complexity)              2
               Easy                            366  Figure 3: Top-20 most frequently occurring verbs (in-
               Hard                            322  ner) and their top-4 direct nouns (outer) in captions.


the caption must be clear and understandable; (2) the caption should avoid excessive complexity, such
as overly varied objects or too intricate dynamics; and (3) the captions must accurately reflect the
intended interaction categories (e.g., that fluids are mentioned in solid-fluid or fluid-fluid dynamics).
Finally, we have 688 captions where 289 captions for solid-solid interactions, 291 for solid-fluid
interactions, and 108 for fluid-fluid interactions, respectively. We highlight that our prompts include
a wide range of material types and physical interactions that are common in both real life and the
graphics community. Material types include simple rigid bodies [58], deformable bodies [39], think
shells [22], metal [57], fracture [108], cream [118], sand [44] and so on. The contact handling is also
diverse as it is based on the interactions of all aforementioned materials [33, 54, 34, 121]. Data quality
is paramount for evaluating foundation models. For instance, Winoground (400 examples) [98],
Visit-Bench (500 examples) [11], LLaVA-Bench (90 examples) [61], and Vibe-Eval (269 examples)
[76] are commonly employed to assess vision-language models due to their high-quality despite their
limited size. Given that human verification demands significant expert hours and is not scalable
within our budget, we prioritize data quality for evaluating T2V models.

Difficulty Annotation (Stage 3). To acquire fine-grained insights into the quality of the video
generation, we further annotate our each instance in the dataset with perceived difficulty. Specifically,
we ask two experienced graphics researchers (senior Ph.D. students in physics-based simulation)
to independently classify each caption as easy (0) or hard (1) based on their perception of the
complexity in simulating the objects and motions in the captions using state-of-the-art physics
engines [54, 24, 109, 122, 81, 30]. Subsequently, the disagreements were discussed to reach a
unanimous judgment for less than 5% of the instances. The difficulty of a simulation is primarily
influenced by the complexity of the model, which varies depending on the type of material. For
example, deformable bodies pose a greater modeling challenge than rigid bodies because they change
shape under external forces, leading to more complex partial differential equations (PDEs). In
contrast, rigid bodies maintain their shape, resulting in simpler models. Another key factor is the
numerical difficulty in solving these equations, which increases with the material’s velocity, especially


                                                          4
when high-order terms are involved in the PDEs. As a result, slower-moving materials are generally
easier to simulate than faster-moving ones. We note that the level of difficulty is evaluated within
each category (e.g., solid-solid, solid-fluid, fluid-fluid), and cannot be compared across different
categories. We present the examples for generated captions in Table 1.

Data Analysis. A fine-grained metadata facilitates a comprehensive understanding of the bench-
mark. Specifically, we present the main statistics of the V IDEO P HY dataset in Table 2. Notably, we
generate 11330 videos for the prompts in the dataset using a diverse range of generative models. In
addition, the average caption length is 8.5 words, indicating that most captions are straightforward
and do not complicate our analysis with complex phrasing that could be excessively challenging the
generative models. 1 The dataset includes 138 unique actions grounded in our captions. Figure 3
visualizes the root verbs and direct nouns used in the V IDEO P HY captions, highlighting the diversity
of actions and entities. Hence, our dataset encompasses a wide range of visual concepts and actions.
We perform fine-grained diversity analysis in Appendix G.

3         Evaluation
3.1       Metrics
The ability to assess the quality of the generated videos is a challenging task. While humans can eval-
uate videos across various visual dimensions [40, 19], we focus primarily on the models’ adherence
to the provided text and the incorporation of physical commonsense. These are key objectives that
conditional generative models must maximize. We note that several video characteristics such as
object motion, video quality, text adherence, physical commonsense, temporal consistency of subject
and object etc. are usually intertwined with each other. It is non-trivial to disentangle their effect
when humans make decisions. However, focusing on each aspect at a time provides a comprehensive
picture of the model capabilities along a specific dimension. In this work, we focus on physical
commonsense and semantic adherence. Further, there are diverse ways to acquire human judgments
such as dense and sparse feedback. While a dense feedback provides detailed information about
the model mistakes, it is hard to acquire and miscalibrated [65, 53]. Due to the simplicity of binary
judgment and its widespread use in text-to-image generative models [56, 52], we employ binary
feedback (0/1) to evaluate the generated videos in this work. Our experiments will demonstrate
that binary feedback effectively highlights differences in the model’s quality across various object
interactions and levels of task complexity.

Semantic Adherence (SA). This metric assesses whether the text caption is semantically grounded
in the frames of the generated videos, measuring video-text alignment. Specifically, it assesses if the
actions, events, entities, and their relationships are perceived to be correctly depicted in the video
frames (e.g., water is flowing into the glass in the generated video for the caption ‘water pouring
into the glass’). In this work, we annotate the generated videos for semantic adherence, denoted as
SA = {0, 1}. Here, SA = 1 indicates that the caption is grounded in the generated video.
Physical Commonsense (PC). This metric evaluates whether the depicted actions, and object’s
state follow the physics laws in the real-world. For instance, the level of water should increase
in the glass as water flows into it, following conversation of mass. In this work, we annotate the
physical commonsense of the generated videos, denoted as PC = {0, 1}. Here, PC = 1 indicates
that the generated movements and interactions align with intuitive physics that humans acquire with
their experience in the real-world. As physical commonsense is entirely grounded in the video, it is
independent of the semantic adherence capability of the generated video. In this work, we compute
the fraction of the videos for which semantic adherence is high (SA = 1), physical commonsense is
high (PC = 1), and joint performance of these metrics is high (SA = 1, PC = 1).

3.2       Human Evaluation
We conducted a human evaluation to assess the performance of the generated videos in terms of
semantic adherence and physical commonsense using our dataset. The annotations were obtained from
a group of qualified Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) workers who were provided with the detailed
      1
   We use GPT-4 to enhance and generate longer versions of the original captions. However, we found that
most of the T2V models are poor at following long/enhanced captions most of the time.


                                                   5
task description (and clarifications) on a shared slack channel. Subsequently, 14 workers who have
studied high-school physics were chosen to perform the annotations after passing a qualification test.
In this task, annotators were presented with a caption and the corresponding generated video without
any information about the generative model. They were asked to provide a semantic adherence score
(0 or 1) and a physical commonsense score (0 or 1) for each instance. Annotators were instructed to
treat semantic adherence and physical commonsense as independent metrics and were shown several
solved examples by the authors before starting the main annotation task. In some cases, we find
that generative models create static scenes instead of video frames with high motion. Here, we ask
annotators to judge the physical plausibility of the static scene in the real world (e.g., a static scene of
a folded brick does not follow physical commonsense). If the static scenes are noisy (e.g., unwanted
grainy or speckled patterns), we instruct them to consider it as poor physical commonsense. 2
The human annotators were not asked to list the violation of the physics laws since it would make
the annotations more time-consuming and expensive. Additionally, the current annotations can be
performed by annotators experience in the physical world (e.g., workers know that water flows
down from a tap, shape of a wood log will not change while floating on water) instead of advanced
education in physics. A screenshot of the human annotation interface is presented in Appendix E.

3.3       Automatic Evaluation
While the human evaluation is more accurate for benchmarking, it is time-consuming and expensive
to acquire at scale. In addition, we want the model developers with limited resources for human
evaluation to use our benchmark. To this end, we design V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS, a reliable auto-rater
for our evaluation dataset. Specifically, we use V IDEO C ON, an open video-text language model with
7B parameters, that is trained on real videos for robust semantic adherence evaluation [3]. Specifically,
we prompt V IDEO C ON to generate a text response (Yes/No) conditioned on the multimodal template.
We provide details about the templates and score computation using V IDEO C ON in Appendix F.
Since V IDEO C ON is not trained on the generated video distribution or equipped to judge physical
commonsense, it is not expected to perform well in our setup in a zero-shot manner. To this end,
we propose V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS, an open-source generative video-text model, that can assess the
semantic adherence and physical commonsense of the generated videos. Specifically, we finetune
V IDEO C ON by combining the human annotations acquired for the semantic adherence and physical
commonsense tasks over the generated videos. We present the GPT-4Vision [74] and Gemini-1.5-Pro-
Vision [84] baselines in Appendix J.3 We assess auto-rater effectiveness by computing the ROC-AUC
between human annotations and model judgments for videos generated from testing prompts.

4         Setup
Video Generative Models. We evaluate a diverse range of twelve closed and open text-to-video
generative models on V IDEO P HY dataset. The list of the models includes ZeroScope [20], LaVIE
[105], VideoCrafter2 [21], OpenSora [75], CogVideoX-2B and 5B [113], StableVideoDiffusion (SVD)-
T2I2V [12], Gen-2 (Runway) [27], Lumiere-T2V, Lumiere-T2I2V (Google) [7], Dream Machine
(Luma AI) [1], and Pika [78]. We provide more model and inference details in Appendix C and K. 4

Dataset setup. As described earlier, we train V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS to enable cheaper and scalable
testing of the generated videos on our dataset (§ 3.3). To facilitate this, we split the prompts in the
V IDEO P HY dataset equally into train and test sets. Specifically, we utilize the human annotations
on the generated videos for the 344 prompts in the test set for benchmarking, while the human
annotations on the generated videos for the 344 prompts in the train set are used for training the
automatic evaluation model. We ensure that the distribution of the state of matter (solid-solid,
solid-fluid, fluid-fluid) and complexity (easy, hard) is similar in the training and testing.

Benchmarking. Here, we generate one video per test prompt for each T2V generative model in
our testbed. Subsequently, we ask three human annotators to judge the semantic adherence and
      2
     The workers were compensated at a rate of $18 per hour.
      3
     We note that finetuning separate classifier for semantic adherence and physical commonsense did not provide
any additional benefits over a single classifier (V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS) trained in a multi-task manner.
   4
     While there are various closed models such as Sora [64], Kling AI [45], and Genmo [32], we could not get
access through their videos due to the lack of API support.


                                                       6
Table 3: Human evaluation results on the V IDEO P HY dataset. We report the percentage of testing prompts for
which the T2V models generate videos that adhere to the conditioning caption and exhibit physical commonsense.
We abbreviate semantic adherence as SA, and physical commonsense as PC. SA, PC indicates the percentage of
the instances for which SA=1 and PC=1. Ideally, we want the generative models to maximize the performance
on this metric. In the first column, we highlight the overall performance, and the later columns are dedicated to
fine-grained performance for the interaction between different states of matter in the prompts.
                           Overall (%)          Solid-Solid (%)        Solid-Fluid (%)        Fluid-Fluid (%)
 Model                 SA, PC SA       PC     SA, PC SA       PC     SA, PC SA       PC     SA, PC SA       PC
 Open Models
 CogVideoX-5B [113]     39.6    63.3    53     24.4    50.3   43.3    53.1    76.5   59.3    43.6    61.8   61.8
 VideoCrafter2 [21]     19.0    48.5   34.6     4.9    31.5   23.8    27.4    57.5   41.8    32.7    69.1   43.6
 CogVideoX-2B [113]     18.6    47.2   34.1    12.7    42.9   28.1    21.9    56.1   34.9    25.4    34.5   47.2
 LaVIE [105]            15.7    48.7   28.0     8.5    37.3   19.0    15.8    52.1   30.8    34.5    69.1   43.6
 SVD-T2I2V [13]         11.9    42.4   30.8     4.2    25.9   27.3    17.1    52.7   32.9    18.2    58.2   34.5
 ZeroScope [20]         11.9    30.2   32.6     6.3    17.5   22.4    14.4    40.4   37.0    20.0    36.4   47.3
 OpenSora [75]          4.9     18.0   23.5     1.4     7.7   23.8     7.5    30.1   21.9    7.3     12.7   27.3
 Closed Models
 Pika [78]              19.7    41.1   36.5    13.6    24.8   36.8    16.3    46.5   27.9    44.0    68.0   58.0
 Dream Machine [1]      13.6    61.9   21.8    12.1    50.0   24.3    16.6    68.1   23.6    9.0     76.3   11.0
 Lumiere-T2I2V [7]      12.5    48.5   25.0     8.4    37.1   25.2    17.1    59.6   26.0    10.9    49.1   21.8
 Lumiere-T2V [7]         9.0    38.4   27.9     8.4    26.6   27.3     9.6    47.3   26.0    9.1     45.5   34.5
 Gen-2 [27]              7.6    26.6   27.2     4.0     8.9   37.1     8.1    38.5   18.5    15.1    37.7   26.4



physical commonsense of the generated videos. In our experiments, we report the majority-voted
scores from the human annotators. We find that the inter-annotator agreement for semantic adherence
and physical commonsense judgment is 75% and 70%, respectively. This indicates that the human
annotators find the task of judging physical commonsense more subjective than semantic adherence.
5
  In total, we collect 24500 human annotations across the testing prompts and T2V models.

Training set for V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS. Here, we sample two videos per training prompt for
nine T2V models.6 We choose two videos to obtain more data instances for training the automatic
evaluation model. Subsequently, we ask one human annotator to judge the semantic adherence
and physical commonsense of the generated videos. In total, we collect 12000 human annotations,
half of them for semantic adherence and the other half for physical commonsense. Specifically,
we finetune V IDEO C ON to maximize the log likelihood of Yes/No conditioned on the multimodal
template for semantic adherence and physical commonsense tasks (Appendix F). We do not collect
three annotations per video as it is financially expensive. In total, we spent $3500 on collecting
human annotations for benchmarking and training.

5     Results
Here, we present the results of the T2V generative models (§5.1), and establish the effectiveness of
the V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS as an automatic evaluator on the V IDEO P HY dataset (§3.3).

5.1   Performance on V IDEO P HY Dataset
We compare the performance of the T2V generative models on the V IDEO P HY dataset using human
evaluation in Table 3. We find that CogVideoX-5B generates videos that adhere to the caption and
follow physics laws (SA = 1, PC = 1) in 39.6% of the cases. The success of CogVideoX can be
attributed to its high-quality data curation including inclusion of detailed captions, and filtering videos
with less motion and poor quality. In addition, we find that the rest of the video models achieve
a score below 20%. This highlights that the existing video models severely lack the capability to
generate videos which follow intuitive physics, and establishes V IDEO P HY as a challenging dataset.7
More specifically, CogVideoX-5B stands out as the best model for generating videos that demonstrate
physical commonsense, achieving a performance of 53%, while CogVideoX-2B is the second best
    5
      Variations in annotations arise from differing tolerance for commonsense violations in imperfect videos. As
generative models improve, human annotations will align more closely.
    6
      Since the CogVideoX and Dream Machine models were released very recently, they could not be included
in the training set of the automatic evaluator.
    7
      We compared pairwise model predictions using the paired t-test at a 95% confidence interval. We find that
the difference between CogVideoX-5B and other video models is statistically significant (p<0.0001).


                                                       7
open model at 34.1%. Further, this highlights that scaling the network capacity improves its ability
to capture the underlying physical constraints of the internet-scale video data. In addition, we find
that OpenSora performs the worst on the V IDEO P HY dataset, indicating significant potential for
the community to improve open-source implementations of Sora. Amongst the closed models, Pika
achieves generates videos that achieve positive judgement for semantic adherence and physical
commonsense for 19.7% of the cases. Interestingly, we observe that Dream Machine achieves a high
semantic adherence score (61.9%) but a poor physical commonsense score (21.8%) which highlights
that a optimizing for semantic adherence does not necessarily lead to good physical commonsense.

Variation with the states of matter. We study the variation in the performance of T2V models
with the interaction between the diverse states of matter grounded in the captions (e.g., solid-solid) in
Table 5.1. Interestingly, we find that all the existing T2V models perform the worst on the captions
that depict interactions between solid materials (e.g., bottle topples off the table), with the best
performing model, CogVideoX-5B, achieving 24.4% on accurate semantic adherence and physical
commonsense. Furthermore, we observe that Pika achieves the highest performance in the captions
that depict interaction between fluid and fluid material types (e.g., rain splashing on a pond). This
indicates that the T2V model performance is greatly influenced by the states of matter involved in a
scene, and highlights that model developers can focus on enhancing semantic adherence and physical
commonsense for solid-solid interactions.

Variation with the complexity. We analyze the variation in the video model performance with the
complexity in rendering objects or synthesizing interactions grounded in the caption under physical
simulation in Appendix Table 6. We find that the semantic adherence and physical commonsense
performance of all the video models decreases as the complexity of the captions increases. This
indicates that the captions that are harder to simulate physically are also harder to control via
conditioning for the video generative models. Our analysis thus highlights that the future T2V model
development should focus on reducing the gap between the easy and the hard captions from our
V IDEO P HY dataset. We provide qualitative generated examples from captions of varying complexity
and material states in Appendix R. Further, we present results for additional metrics in Appendix I.

Correlation analysis. To understand the connection between various performance metrics, we
examine the correlation between semantic adherence (SA) and physical commonsense (PC) with
video quality and motion (Appendix §O). Our empirical results show a positive correlation between
video quality and both PC and SA, while motion exhibits a negative correlation with PC and SA. This
indicates that the video models tend to make more mistakes in the SA and PC when more motions
are depicted in them. The closed models (Dream Machine/Pika) contribute to the higher end of the
video quality while open models (Zeroscope/OpenSora) contribute to the lower end of video quality.
While the high quality is ‘correlated’ with the better PC, we note that the absolute performance of the
models is quite poor on our benchmark.

5.2   Qualitative Analysis




  (a) v. Pika. Water spraying from    (b) v. Dream Machine. The sharp        (c) v. Gen-2. A tire rolls through
     a garden hose onto plants.      knife severs the fresh loaf of bread.   a deep puddle, splashing water.

Figure 4: Comparison of CogVideoX-5B with other models. The top row shows the videos generated by
CogVideoX-5B. (a) For Pika, the water streams on the left and right have drastically different speed. (b) For
DM, a part of the bread suddenly changes its shape. (c) For Gen-2, the water droplets remain still in the air.

Here, we provide a qualitative analysis of the generated videos to assess the common failure modes.


                                                      8
    (a) Dominoes toppling one after another on the table        (b) Leather glove catching a hard baseball

Figure 5: Illustration of CogVideoX-5B’s limitations in understanding material properties. Even the
best-performing model, CogVideoX-5B, may struggle to correctly capture the material properties, leading to
unnatural dynamics that do not align with the object characteristics. Artifacts in the examples: (a) the dominoes,
which should behave as rigid bodies, show inconsistent changes in geometry and texture over time, (b) the
leather glove exhibits unnatural deformations.


Comparison between CogVideoX-5B with other models. We analyze some qualitative examples
to understand the gap between the best-performing model (CogVideoX-5B) and the other models
in our testbed. We present some examples in Figure 4. Specifically, we find that SVD-T2I2V is
likely to underperform in scenes involving vibrant fluid dynamics. Lumiere-T2I2V and Dream
Machine (Luma) perform better than Lumiere-T2V in terms of visual quality, but they lack profound
understanding of rigid geometries (e.g. in Figure 4(b)). Further, we notice that Gen-2 sometimes
generates static objects in the air with slow camera motion, instead of meaningful physical dynamics
(e.g. in Figure 4(c)). In contrast, CogVideoX-5B shows decent capability of identifying distinct
objects, as deformation from its results seldom mingles multiple objects. Further, it tends to use
simpler backgrounds, avoiding complex patterns where flaws are easier to be spotted. Nevertheless,
even the best-performing model, CogVideoX-5B, may struggle to understand the material properties
of the underlying objects, resulting in unnatural or inconsistent deformations, as shown in Figure
5. This phenomenon is also observed in results from other video generative models. Our analysis
highlights the lack of fine-grained physical commonsense that future research should aim to address.

Failure mode analysis. We present some qual-
itative examples to understand the common fail- Table 4: Comparison of ROC-AUC for au-
ure modes in the generated video regarding poor tomatic evaluation methods. We find that
physical commonsense. Qualitative examples V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS outperforms diverse base-
from various T2V generative models are pro- lines, including GPT-4Vision and Gemini-1.5-Pro,
vided in Figure 15 - 26 in Appendix Q. The for semantic adherence (SA) and physical com-
common failure modes include – (a) Conserva- monsense (PC) judgments on the testing prompts.
tion of mass violation: the volume or texture of
an object is not consistent over time, (b) New-        Method(↓)/RUC-AOC(→)               SA PC
ton’s First Law violation: an object changes its       Random                             50     50
velocity in a balanced state without any external      GPT-4-Vision [74]                  53     53
force, (c) Newton’s Second Law violation: an ob-       Gemini-1.5-Pro-Vision [84]         73     58
ject violates the conversation of momentum, (d)        V IDEO C ON [3]                    65     54
Solid Constitutive Law violation: solids deform        V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS (Ours) 82           73
in ways that contradict their material properties,
e.g., a rigid object deforming over time, (e) Fluid Constitutive Law violation: fluids exhibit unnatural
flow motions, and (f) Non-physical penetration: objects unnaturally penetrate each other.

6     V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS: Automatic Evaluator for V IDEO P HY Dataset
We supplement our dataset with V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS, an automatic rater for scalable and reliable
evaluation of semantic adherence and physical commonsense in the generated videos.

V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS generalizes to unseen prompts. We compare the ROC-AUC of different
automatic evaluators with the human predictions on the testing prompts in Table 4. Here, the videos
are generated by the models that are used to train the V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS model. We find that
the V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS outperforms the zero-shot V IDEO C ON by 17 points and 19 points on the
semantic adherence and physical commonsense judgment, respectively. This highlights that finetuning
with the generated video distribution and human annotations aids in improving the model judgment on
the unseen prompts. Further, we notice that the model’s agreement are higher for semantic adherence
as compared to the physical commonsense. This indicates that judging physical commonsense is a


                                                           9
harder task than judging semantic adherence for V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS. Interestingly, we observe that
the GPT-4-Vision’s judgments are close to random for semantic adherence and physical commonsense
on our dataset. This implies that faithful evaluations are hard to obtain from the multi-image reasoning
capabilities of the GPT-4-Vision in a zero-shot manner. To address this, we test Gemini-Pro-Vision-
1.5 and find that it achieves a good semantic adherence score (73 points), however, it is close to
random in physical commonsense evaluation (54 points). This highlights that the existing multimodal
foundation models lack the capability to judge physical commonsense.

V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS generalizes to unseen
generative models. To assess performance on Table 5: Performance of V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS on
an unseen video distribution, we train an ab- unseen generative model. We train an ablated version
lated version of V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS on a re- of V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS and find that it outperforms
stricted set of video data. Specifically, we train the baseline in the semantic adherence (SA) and phys-
V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS on human annotations ac- ical commonsense (PC) judgment averaged over three
quired from VideoCrafter2, ZeroScope, LaVIE, unseen video models on the testing prompts.
OpenSora, SVD-T2I2V and Gen-2, and eval-               Method                              SA PC
uate it on unseen videos from the remaining
                                                       V IDEO C ON [3]                     64    57
T2V models in our testbed generated for the test-
                                                       V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS (Ours) 79           72
ing captions. We present the results in Table 5.
We find that V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS outperforms
V IDEO C ON by 15 points and 15 points on semantic adherence and physical commonsense judgement,
respectively. This highlights that V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS can judge semantic adherence and physical
commonsense as new T2V generative models are released.

Automatic leaderboard reliably tracks human leaderboard. We create an automatic leaderboard
by averaging the semantic adherence and physical commonsense scores of the open and closed
video models on the test set. Subsequently, we align these rankings with the human leaderboard
based on the joint performance metrics (SA = 1, PC = 1). We present the human and automatic
leaderboard for the open and closed model in Appendix M. We observe that the relative rankings
of the models in the automatic leaderboard (CogVideoX-5B>VideoCrafter2>LaVIE>CogVideoX-
2B>SVD-T2I2V>ZeroScope>OpenSora) strongly matches with the relative rankings of the mod-
els in the human leaderboard (CogVideoX-5B>VideoCrafter2>CogVideoX-2B>LaVIE>SVD-
T2I2V>ZeroScope>OpenSora). We observe similar trends for the closed models. But, we find that
Pika achieves a relatively low score on the automatic leaderboard, a limitation that can be improved
by acquiring more data for V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS. Overall, we find that the rankings of most of
the models are similar under both the leaderboards, establishing its reliability for future model
development. Further discussion on the usefulness of V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS in Appendix §N.

Finetuning video models. While V IDEO P HY data is used for model evaluation and building
automatic evaluator, we assess whether this dataset can be used to finetune video models in Ap-
pendix P. Post-finetuning, we observe a significant decrease in semantic adherence, while physical
commonsense remains unchanged. This is likely due to limited training samples, optimization
challenges, and the nascency of the video finetuning field. Future work will focus on enhancing
physical commonsense in generative models based on these findings.

7   Related Work
Video Generation Models. Recent advancements in video generation models have emerged
from two primary architectures: diffusion-based models [27, 13, 64, 14, 105, 103, 21, 42] and
autoregressive modeling-based approaches [116, 46, 36, 100]. Among these, diffusion models have
garnered significant attention. The model known as SVD [13], built on a Latent Diffusion Model
(LDM) [85], proposes a three-stage training process for video LDMs: text-to-image pretraining,
video pretraining, and video finetuning. Sora [64] represents a state-of-the-art in video generation,
utilizing a diffusion-transformer architecture with unified training recipes and enhancements in
language description processing for video generation. ModelScope [103] is also a diffusion-based
text-to-video model which combines a VQGAN [29], a text-encoder, and a denoising UNet. Another
diffusion model, VideoCrafter2 [21], leverages low-quality videos and high-quality videos to generate
high-quality videos. LaVIE [105] is composed of a base text-to-video model, a temporal interpolation
model, and a video super-resolution model, indicating that joint image and video training and temporal


                                                  10
self-attention with rotary positional embeddings are key components to boost performance. Given the
rapid development of video generation technology, an effective evaluation method for the generated
videos becomes crucial. Our paper focuses on evaluating text-to-video generation models for their
physical commonsense capabilities.

Evaluating Video Generation Models. To evaluate the quality of a T2V generative model, Fréchet
video distance (FVD) is traditionally used to measure the similarity between real and generated video
distributions [99, 19]. However, FVD has several limitations for assessing physical commonsense
including the requirement for a reference video that is difficult to obtain for novel scenes, bias
towards video quality, and failure to detect unrealistic motions [16, 92]. Similarly, CLIPScore [82]
measures semantic similarity between generated video frames and the conditioning text in a shared
representation space, making it unsuitable for evaluating physical commonsense in generated videos.
However, there is a growing consensus on the need for more comprehensive metrics to assess the
performance of video generation models [40, 63, 48, 59]. V-Bench [40] offers a detailed benchmark
suite that introduces a hierarchical evaluation protocol, breaking down ‘video generation quality’ into
various granular perspectives. Another framework, EvalCrafter [63], proposes 17 objective metrics.
Despite these advancements, existing methods largely overlook the fundamental aspect of physical
commonsense. Unlike static images, videos incorporate a temporal dimension, embedding physical
commonsense information across frames. Our research dives into the measurement of physical
commonsense [10] in videos. While prior research [49] presents training-free image-text alignment
evaluation using existing large multimodal models, we find that they are insufficient for accurate
judgments on V IDEO P HY. Hence, we introduce a V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS auto-evaluator that is trained
on diverse generated videos and human annotations for reliable judgments.

Physics Modeling. Simulating physical behaviors of solids and fluids has always been an important
and popular topic in computer graphics. For solid materials, the simplest physical model is the
long-established rigid body simulation [8], where solids are assumed not to deform. Simulation of
deformable solids [90], on the other hand, takes into account the strain and stress during deformation.
To capture more complicated materials, researchers have been proposing increasingly intricate
models for different materials, such as metal [72], sand [44], and snow [94]. In contrast, most of
the common fluids [15] in daily life can be broadly categorized as inviscid [47], e.g., water and air,
and viscous fluids [96, 51], e.g., honey and oil. Additionally, an orthogonal research direction is to
accurately, efficiently, and robustly model contact and interaction between different materials. These
include solid-solid [54, 55], solid-fluid [9, 109], and fluid-fluid interactions [69]. Further, recent
advancements in computer vision have started exploring incorporating physics priors into various
3D-aware generation tasks to enhance physical plausibility, such as human animation [117, 89, 111]
and 3D/4D generation [67, 110, 119]. However, these approaches often depend on high-quality
3D reconstructions from multi-view images. Some efforts [62] have also integrated physics-based
simulations into video generative models, but the simulations are performed in 2D space due to the
lack of 3D information, resulting in limited dynamics. In this work, instead of generating, we focus
on identifying whether the generated video adheres to physical laws.


8   Conclusion

In this work, we introduce V IDEO P HY, a first of its kind dataset to assess the physical commonsense
in the generated videos. Further, we evaluate a diverse set of video models (open and closed
models) and found that they significantly lack in the physical commonsense and semantic adherence
capabilities. Our dataset unveils that the existing methods are far being general-purpose world
simulators. Further, we introduce V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS, an auto-evaluation model that enables cheap
and scalable evaluation on our dataset. We believe that our work will serve as the cornerstone in
studying physical commonsense for video generative modeling.


9   Acknowledgement

Hritik Bansal is supported in part by AFOSR MURI grant FA9550-22-1-0380.


                                                  11
References
 [1] Luma AI. Luma Dream Machine | AI Video Generator — lumalabs.ai. https://lumalabs.
     ai/dream-machine, 2024.
 [2] Max Bain, Arsha Nagrani, Gül Varol, and Andrew Zisserman. Frozen in time: A joint video
     and image encoder for end-to-end retrieval. In IEEE International Conference on Computer
     Vision, 2021.
 [3] Hritik Bansal, Yonatan Bitton, Idan Szpektor, Kai-Wei Chang, and Aditya Grover. Videocon:
     Robust video-language alignment via contrast captions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.10111,
     2023.
 [4] Hritik Bansal, Yonatan Bitton, Michal Yarom, Idan Szpektor, Aditya Grover, and Kai-Wei
     Chang. Talc: Time-aligned captions for multi-scene text-to-video generation. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2405.04682, 2024.
 [5] Hritik Bansal, Ashima Suvarna, Gantavya Bhatt, Nanyun Peng, Kai-Wei Chang, and Aditya
     Grover. Comparing bad apples to good oranges: Aligning large language models via joint
     preference optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.00530, 2024.
 [6] Hritik Bansal, Da Yin, Masoud Monajatipoor, and Kai-Wei Chang. How well can text-to-
     image generative models understand ethical natural language interventions? arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2210.15230, 2022.
 [7] Omer Bar-Tal, Hila Chefer, Omer Tov, Charles Herrmann, Roni Paiss, Shiran Zada, Ariel
     Ephrat, Junhwa Hur, Yuanzhen Li, Tomer Michaeli, et al. Lumiere: A space-time diffusion
     model for video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.12945, 2024.
 [8] David Baraff. An introduction to physically based modeling: rigid body simulation
     i—unconstrained rigid body dynamics. SIGGRAPH course notes, 82, 1997.
 [9] Christopher Batty, Florence Bertails, and Robert Bridson. A fast variational framework for
     accurate solid-fluid coupling. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 26(3):100–es, 2007.
[10] Yonatan Bisk, Rowan Zellers, Jianfeng Gao, Yejin Choi, et al. Piqa: Reasoning about physical
     commonsense in natural language. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial
     intelligence, volume 34, pages 7432–7439, 2020.
[11] Yonatan Bitton, Hritik Bansal, Jack Hessel, Rulin Shao, Wanrong Zhu, Anas Awadalla, Josh
     Gardner, Rohan Taori, and Ludwig Schmidt. Visit-bench: A benchmark for vision-language
     instruction following inspired by real-world use. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.06595, 2023.
[12] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel Mendelevitch, Maciej Kilian, Do-
     minik Lorenz, Yam Levi, Zion English, Vikram Voleti, Adam Letts, et al. Stable video diffusion:
     Scaling latent video diffusion models to large datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127,
     2023.
[13] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel Mendelevitch, Maciej Kilian, Do-
     minik Lorenz, Yam Levi, Zion English, Vikram Voleti, Adam Letts, et al. Stable video diffusion:
     Scaling latent video diffusion models to large datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127,
     2023.
[14] Andreas Blattmann, Robin Rombach, Huan Ling, Tim Dockhorn, Seung Wook Kim, Sanja
     Fidler, and Karsten Kreis. Align your latents: High-resolution video synthesis with latent
     diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
     Pattern Recognition, pages 22563–22575, 2023.
[15] Robert Bridson. Fluid simulation for computer graphics. AK Peters/CRC Press, 2015.
[16] Tim Brooks, Janne Hellsten, Miika Aittala, Ting-Chun Wang, Timo Aila, Jaakko Lehtinen,
     Ming-Yu Liu, Alexei Efros, and Tero Karras. Generating long videos of dynamic scenes.
     Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:31769–31781, 2022.


                                               12
[17] Tim Brooks, Bill Peebles, Connor Holmes, Will DePue, Yufei Guo, Li Jing, David Schnurr,
     Joe Taylor, Troy Luhman, Eric Luhman, Clarence Ng, Ricky Wang, and Aditya Ramesh. Video
     generation models as world simulators. 2024.
[18] Jake Bruce, Michael Dennis, Ashley Edwards, Jack Parker-Holder, Yuge Shi, Edward Hughes,
     Matthew Lai, Aditi Mavalankar, Richie Steigerwald, Chris Apps, et al. Genie: Generative
     interactive environments. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.15391, 2024.
[19] Emanuele Bugliarello, H Hernan Moraldo, Ruben Villegas, Mohammad Babaeizadeh, Moham-
     mad Taghi Saffar, Han Zhang, Dumitru Erhan, Vittorio Ferrari, Pieter-Jan Kindermans, and
     Paul Voigtlaender. Storybench: A multifaceted benchmark for continuous story visualization.
     Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
[20] cerspense. cerspense/zeroscope_v2_576w · Hugging Face — huggingface.co. https://
     huggingface.co/cerspense/zeroscope_v2_576w, 2023.
[21] Haoxin Chen, Yong Zhang, Xiaodong Cun, Menghan Xia, Xintao Wang, Chao Weng, and Ying
     Shan. Videocrafter2: Overcoming data limitations for high-quality video diffusion models.
     arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.09047, 2024.
[22] Hsiao-Yu Chen, Arnav Sastry, Wim M van Rees, and Etienne Vouga. Physical simulation
     of environmentally induced thin shell deformation. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG),
     37(4):1–13, 2018.
[23] Tsai-Shien Chen, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Willi Menapace, Ekaterina Deyneka, Hsiang-wei
     Chao, Byung Eun Jeon, Yuwei Fang, Hsin-Ying Lee, Jian Ren, Ming-Hsuan Yang, et al.
     Panda-70m: Captioning 70m videos with multiple cross-modality teachers. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2402.19479, 2024.
[24] Yunuo Chen, Tianyi Xie, Cem Yuksel, Danny Kaufman, Yin Yang, Chenfanfu Jiang, and
     Minchen Li. Multi-layer thick shells. In ACM SIGGRAPH 2023 Conference Proceedings,
     pages 1–9, 2023.
[25] Yilun Du, Sherry Yang, Bo Dai, Hanjun Dai, Ofir Nachum, Josh Tenenbaum, Dale Schuurmans,
     and Pieter Abbeel. Learning universal policies via text-guided video generation. Advances in
     Neural Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
[26] Jiafei Duan, Arijit Dasgupta, Jason Fischer, and Cheston Tan. A survey on machine learning
     approaches for modelling intuitive physics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.06481, 2022.
[27] Patrick Esser, Johnathan Chiu, Parmida Atighehchian, Jonathan Granskog, and Anastasis Ger-
     manidis. Structure and content-guided video synthesis with diffusion models. In Proceedings
     of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 7346–7356, 2023.
[28] Patrick Esser, Sumith Kulal, Andreas Blattmann, Rahim Entezari, Jonas Müller, Harry Saini,
     Yam Levi, Dominik Lorenz, Axel Sauer, Frederic Boesel, et al. Scaling rectified flow transform-
     ers for high-resolution image synthesis. In Forty-first International Conference on Machine
     Learning, 2024.
[29] Patrick Esser, Robin Rombach, and Bjorn Ommer. Taming transformers for high-resolution
     image synthesis. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
     recognition, pages 12873–12883, 2021.
[30] Yu Fang, Ziyin Qu, Minchen Li, Xinxin Zhang, Yixin Zhu, Mridul Aanjaneya, and Chenfanfu
     Jiang. Iq-mpm: an interface quadrature material point method for non-sticky strongly two-way
     coupled nonlinear solids and fluids. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 39(4):51–1, 2020.
[31] Samir Yitzhak Gadre, Gabriel Ilharco, Alex Fang, Jonathan Hayase, Georgios Smyrnis, Thao
     Nguyen, Ryan Marten, Mitchell Wortsman, Dhruba Ghosh, Jieyu Zhang, et al. Datacomp:
     In search of the next generation of multimodal datasets. Advances in Neural Information
     Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
[32] genmo. Genmo. Create videos and images with AI. — genmo.ai. https://www.genmo.ai/.


                                               13
[33] Jiayuan Gu, Fanbo Xiang, Xuanlin Li, Zhan Ling, Xiqiang Liu, Tongzhou Mu, Yihe Tang,
     Stone Tao, Xinyue Wei, Yunchao Yao, et al. Maniskill2: A unified benchmark for generalizable
     manipulation skills. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04659, 2023.

[34] Xuchen Han, Joseph Masterjohn, and Alejandro Castro. A convex formulation of frictional
     contact between rigid and deformable bodies. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 2023.

[35] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. Advances
     in neural information processing systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020.

[36] Wenyi Hong, Ming Ding, Wendi Zheng, Xinghan Liu, and Jie Tang. Cogvideo: Large-scale
     pretraining for text-to-video generation via transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.15868,
     2022.

[37] Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang,
     Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2106.09685, 2021.

[38] Tianyu Huang, Yihan Zeng, Hui Li, Wangmeng Zuo, and Rynson WH Lau. Dreamphysics:
     Learning physical properties of dynamic 3d gaussians with video diffusion priors. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2406.01476, 2024.

[39] Zhiao Huang, Yuanming Hu, Tao Du, Siyuan Zhou, Hao Su, Joshua B Tenenbaum, and Chuang
     Gan. Plasticinelab: A soft-body manipulation benchmark with differentiable physics. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2104.03311, 2021.

[40] Ziqi Huang, Yinan He, Jiashuo Yu, Fan Zhang, Chenyang Si, Yuming Jiang, Yuanhan Zhang,
     Tianxing Wu, Qingyang Jin, Nattapol Chanpaisit, et al. Vbench: Comprehensive benchmark
     suite for video generative models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.17982, 2023.

[41] huggingfaceEulerDiscreteScheduler. EulerDiscreteScheduler — huggingface.co. https:
     //huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/api/schedulers/euler.

[42] Levon Khachatryan, Andranik Movsisyan, Vahram Tadevosyan, Roberto Henschel, Zhangyang
     Wang, Shant Navasardyan, and Humphrey Shi. Text2video-zero: Text-to-image diffusion mod-
     els are zero-shot video generators. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference
     on Computer Vision, pages 15954–15964, 2023.

[43] Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:1412.6980, 2014.

[44] Gergely Klár, Theodore Gast, Andre Pradhana, Chuyuan Fu, Craig Schroeder, Chenfanfu Jiang,
     and Joseph Teran. Drucker-prager elastoplasticity for sand animation. ACM Transactions on
     Graphics (TOG), 35(4):1–12, 2016.

[45] KlingAI. KLING AI — klingai.com. https://www.klingai.com/, 2024.

[46] Dan Kondratyuk, Lijun Yu, Xiuye Gu, José Lezama, Jonathan Huang, Rachel Hornung,
     Hartwig Adam, Hassan Akbari, Yair Alon, Vighnesh Birodkar, et al. Videopoet: A large
     language model for zero-shot video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.14125, 2023.

[47] Dan Koschier, Jan Bender, Barbara Solenthaler, and Matthias Teschner. Smoothed particle
     hydrodynamics techniques for the physics based simulation of fluids and solids. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2009.06944, 2020.

[48] Tengchuan Kou, Xiaohong Liu, Zicheng Zhang, Chunyi Li, Haoning Wu, Xiongkuo Min,
     Guangtao Zhai, and Ning Liu. Subjective-aligned dateset and metric for text-to-video quality
     assessment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.11956, 2024.

[49] Max Ku, Dongfu Jiang, Cong Wei, Xiang Yue, and Wenhu Chen. Viescore: Towards explain-
     able metrics for conditional image synthesis evaluation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.14867,
     2023.


                                               14
[50] LaionAI. GitHub - LAION-AI/aesthetic-predictor: A linear estimator on top of clip to
     predict the aesthetic quality of pictures — github.com. https://github.com/LAION-AI/
     aesthetic-predictor, 2022.

[51] Egor Larionov, Christopher Batty, and Robert Bridson. Variational stokes: a unified pressure-
     viscosity solver for accurate viscous liquids. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 36(4):1–
     11, 2017.

[52] Kimin Lee, Hao Liu, Moonkyung Ryu, Olivia Watkins, Yuqing Du, Craig Boutilier, Pieter
     Abbeel, Mohammad Ghavamzadeh, and Shixiang Shane Gu. Aligning text-to-image models
     using human feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.12192, 2023.

[53] James R Lewis and Oğuzhan Erdinç. User experience rating scales with 7, 11, or 101 points:
     does it matter? Journal of Usability Studies, 12(2), 2017.

[54] Minchen Li, Zachary Ferguson, Teseo Schneider, Timothy R Langlois, Denis Zorin, Daniele
     Panozzo, Chenfanfu Jiang, and Danny M Kaufman. Incremental potential contact: intersection-
     and inversion-free, large-deformation dynamics. ACM Trans. Graph., 39(4):49, 2020.

[55] Minchen Li, Danny M Kaufman, and Chenfanfu Jiang. Codimensional incremental potential
     contact. arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.04457, 2020.

[56] Shufan Li, Konstantinos Kallidromitis, Akash Gokul, Yusuke Kato, and Kazuki Kozuka.
     Aligning diffusion models by optimizing human utility. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.04465,
     2024.

[57] Xuan Li, Minchen Li, and Chenfanfu Jiang. Energetically consistent inelasticity for optimiza-
     tion time integration. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 41(4):1–16, 2022.

[58] Jacky Liang, Viktor Makoviychuk, Ankur Handa, Nuttapong Chentanez, Miles Macklin, and
     Dieter Fox. Gpu-accelerated robotic simulation for distributed reinforcement learning. In
     Conference on Robot Learning, pages 270–282. PMLR, 2018.

[59] Zhiqiu Lin, Deepak Pathak, Baiqi Li, Jiayao Li, Xide Xia, Graham Neubig, Pengchuan Zhang,
     and Deva Ramanan. Evaluating text-to-visual generation with image-to-text generation. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2404.01291, 2024.

[60] Fangfu Liu, Hanyang Wang, Shunyu Yao, Shengjun Zhang, Jie Zhou, and Yueqi Duan.
     Physics3d: Learning physical properties of 3d gaussians via video diffusion. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2406.04338, 2024.

[61] Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae Lee. Visual instruction tuning.
     Advances in neural information processing systems, 36, 2024.

[62] Shaowei Liu, Zhongzheng Ren, Saurabh Gupta, and Shenlong Wang. Physgen: Rigid-body
     physics-grounded image-to-video generation.

[63] Yaofang Liu, Xiaodong Cun, Xuebo Liu, Xintao Wang, Yong Zhang, Haoxin Chen, Yang Liu,
     Tieyong Zeng, Raymond Chan, and Ying Shan. Evalcrafter: Benchmarking and evaluating
     large video generation models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
     Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 22139–22149, 2024.

[64] Yixin Liu, Kai Zhang, Yuan Li, Zhiling Yan, Chujie Gao, Ruoxi Chen, Zhengqing Yuan,
     Yue Huang, Hanchi Sun, Jianfeng Gao, et al. Sora: A review on background, technology,
     limitations, and opportunities of large vision models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.17177, 2024.

[65] Luis M Lozano, Eduardo García-Cueto, and José Muñiz. Effect of the number of response
     categories on the reliability and validity of rating scales. Methodology, 4(2):73–79, 2008.

[66] Cheng Lu, Yuhao Zhou, Fan Bao, Jianfei Chen, Chongxuan Li, and Jun Zhu. Dpm-
     solver++: Fast solver for guided sampling of diffusion probabilistic models. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2211.01095, 2022.


                                              15
[67] Mariem Mezghanni, Malika Boulkenafed, Andre Lieutier, and Maks Ovsjanikov. Physically-
     aware generative network for 3d shape modeling. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
     on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 9330–9341, 2021.
[68] mplugowl. mplug-owl-video. https://github.com/X-PLUG/mPLUG-Owl/tree/main/
     mPLUG-Owl/mplug_owl_video.
[69] Matthias Müller, Barbara Solenthaler, Richard Keiser, and Markus Gross. Particle-based
     fluid-fluid interaction. In Proceedings of the 2005 ACM SIGGRAPH/Eurographics symposium
     on Computer animation, pages 237–244, 2005.
[70] Junfeng Ni, Yixin Chen, Bohan Jing, Nan Jiang, Bin Wang, Bo Dai, Yixin Zhu, Song-Chun
     Zhu, and Siyuan Huang. Phyrecon: Physically plausible neural scene reconstruction. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2404.16666, 2024.
[71] Alexander Quinn Nichol and Prafulla Dhariwal. Improved denoising diffusion probabilistic
     models. In International conference on machine learning, pages 8162–8171. PMLR, 2021.
[72] James F O’brien, Adam W Bargteil, and Jessica K Hodgins. Graphical modeling and animation
     of ductile fracture. In Proceedings of the 29th annual conference on Computer graphics and
     interactive techniques, pages 291–294, 2002.
[73] OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774, 2023a, 2023.
[74] OpenAI.   Gpt-4v(ision) system card, 2023b.               https://openai.com/research/
     gpt-4v-system-card, 2023.
[75] OpenSora. GitHub - hpcaitech/Open-Sora: Open-Sora: Democratizing Efficient Video Pro-
     duction for All — github.com. https://github.com/hpcaitech/Open-Sora, 2024.
[76] Piotr Padlewski, Max Bain, Matthew Henderson, Zhongkai Zhu, Nishant Relan, Hai Pham,
     Donovan Ong, Kaloyan Aleksiev, Aitor Ormazabal, Samuel Phua, et al. Vibe-eval: A hard
     evaluation suite for measuring progress of multimodal language models. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2405.02287, 2024.
[77] William Peebles and Saining Xie. Scalable diffusion models with transformers. In Proceedings
     of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 4195–4205, 2023.
[78] pika. Pika — pika.art. https://pika.art/.
[79] Luis S Piloto, Ari Weinstein, Peter Battaglia, and Matthew Botvinick. Intuitive physics learning
     in a deep-learning model inspired by developmental psychology. Nature human behaviour,
     6(9):1257–1267, 2022.
[80] Dustin Podell, Zion English, Kyle Lacey, Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Jonas Müller,
     Joe Penna, and Robin Rombach. Sdxl: Improving latent diffusion models for high-resolution
     image synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.01952, 2023.
[81] Ziyin Qu, Minchen Li, Yin Yang, Chenfanfu Jiang, and Fernando De Goes. Power plastics:
     A hybrid lagrangian/eulerian solver for mesoscale inelastic flows. ACM Transactions on
     Graphics (TOG), 42(6):1–11, 2023.
[82] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal,
     Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning transferable visual
     models from natural language supervision. In International conference on machine learning,
     pages 8748–8763. PMLR, 2021.
[83] Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D Manning, Stefano Ermon, and
     Chelsea Finn. Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model.
     Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
[84] Machel Reid, Nikolay Savinov, Denis Teplyashin, Dmitry Lepikhin, Timothy Lillicrap, Jean-
     baptiste Alayrac, Radu Soricut, Angeliki Lazaridou, Orhan Firat, Julian Schrittwieser, et al.
     Gemini 1.5: Unlocking multimodal understanding across millions of tokens of context. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2403.05530, 2024.


                                                16
 [85] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer.
      High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
      conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 10684–10695, 2022.
 [86] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer.
      High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
      conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 10684–10695, 2022.
 [87] Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Saurabh Saxena, Lala Li, Jay Whang, Emily L Denton,
      Kamyar Ghasemipour, Raphael Gontijo Lopes, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Tim Salimans, et al.
      Photorealistic text-to-image diffusion models with deep language understanding. Advances in
      neural information processing systems, 35:36479–36494, 2022.
 [88] John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal
      policy optimization algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347, 2017.
 [89] Soshi Shimada, Vladislav Golyanik, Weipeng Xu, and Christian Theobalt. Physcap: Physically
      plausible monocular 3d motion capture in real time. ACM Transactions on Graphics (ToG),
      39(6):1–16, 2020.
 [90] Eftychios Sifakis and Jernej Barbic. Fem simulation of 3d deformable solids: a practitioner’s
      guide to theory, discretization and model reduction. In Acm siggraph 2012 courses, pages
      1–50. 2012.
 [91] Uriel Singer, Adam Polyak, Thomas Hayes, Xi Yin, Jie An, Songyang Zhang, Qiyuan Hu,
      Harry Yang, Oron Ashual, Oran Gafni, et al. Make-a-video: Text-to-video generation without
      text-video data. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.14792, 2022.
 [92] Ivan Skorokhodov, Sergey Tulyakov, and Mohamed Elhoseiny. Stylegan-v: A continuous
      video generator with the price, image quality and perks of stylegan2. In Proceedings of the
      IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 3626–3636, 2022.
 [93] Jiaming Song, Chenlin Meng, and Stefano Ermon. Denoising diffusion implicit models. arXiv
      preprint arXiv:2010.02502, 2020.
 [94] Alexey Stomakhin, Craig Schroeder, Lawrence Chai, Joseph Teran, and Andrew Selle. A
      material point method for snow simulation. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 32(4):1–10,
      2013.
 [95] Keqiang Sun, Junting Pan, Yuying Ge, Hao Li, Haodong Duan, Xiaoshi Wu, Renrui Zhang,
      Aojun Zhou, Zipeng Qin, Yi Wang, et al. Journeydb: A benchmark for generative image
      understanding. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
 [96] Tetsuya Takahashi, Tomoyuki Nishita, and Issei Fujishiro. Fast simulation of viscous fluids with
      elasticity and thermal conductivity using position-based dynamics. Computers & Graphics,
      43:21–30, 2014.
 [97] Zachary Teed and Jia Deng. Raft: Recurrent all-pairs field transforms for optical flow. In
      Computer Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th European Conference, Glasgow, UK, August 23–28, 2020,
      Proceedings, Part II 16, pages 402–419. Springer, 2020.
 [98] Tristan Thrush, Ryan Jiang, Max Bartolo, Amanpreet Singh, Adina Williams, Douwe Kiela,
      and Candace Ross. Winoground: Probing vision and language models for visio-linguistic
      compositionality. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
      Pattern Recognition, pages 5238–5248, 2022.
 [99] Thomas Unterthiner, Sjoerd Van Steenkiste, Karol Kurach, Raphael Marinier, Marcin Michal-
      ski, and Sylvain Gelly. Towards accurate generative models of video: A new metric &
      challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.01717, 2018.
[100] Ruben Villegas, Mohammad Babaeizadeh, Pieter-Jan Kindermans, Hernan Moraldo, Han
      Zhang, Mohammad Taghi Saffar, Santiago Castro, Julius Kunze, and Dumitru Erhan. Phenaki:
      Variable length video generation from open domain textual descriptions. In International
      Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.


                                                 17
[101] Bram Wallace, Meihua Dang, Rafael Rafailov, Linqi Zhou, Aaron Lou, Senthil Purushwalkam,
      Stefano Ermon, Caiming Xiong, Shafiq Joty, and Nikhil Naik. Diffusion model alignment
      using direct preference optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.12908, 2023.
[102] Yixin Wan, Arjun Subramonian, Anaelia Ovalle, Zongyu Lin, Ashima Suvarna, Christina
      Chance, Hritik Bansal, Rebecca Pattichis, and Kai-Wei Chang. Survey of bias in text-to-image
      generation: Definition, evaluation, and mitigation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.01030, 2024.
[103] Jiuniu Wang, Hangjie Yuan, Dayou Chen, Yingya Zhang, Xiang Wang, and Shiwei Zhang.
      Modelscope text-to-video technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.06571, 2023.
[104] Wenjing Wang, Huan Yang, Zixi Tuo, Huiguo He, Junchen Zhu, Jianlong Fu, and Jiaying Liu.
      Videofactory: Swap attention in spatiotemporal diffusions for text-to-video generation. arXiv
      preprint arXiv:2305.10874, 2023.
[105] Yaohui Wang, Xinyuan Chen, Xin Ma, Shangchen Zhou, Ziqi Huang, Yi Wang, Ceyuan Yang,
      Yinan He, Jiashuo Yu, Peiqing Yang, et al. Lavie: High-quality video generation with cascaded
      latent diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.15103, 2023.
[106] Yi Wang, Yinan He, Yizhuo Li, Kunchang Li, Jiashuo Yu, Xin Ma, Xinhao Li, Guo Chen,
      Xinyuan Chen, Yaohui Wang, et al. Internvid: A large-scale video-text dataset for multimodal
      understanding and generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.06942, 2023.
[107] Mariusz Witczak, Lesław Juszczak, and Dorota Gałkowska. Non-newtonian behaviour of
      heather honey. Journal of Food Engineering, 104(4):532–537, 2011.
[108] Joshuah Wolper, Yunuo Chen, Minchen Li, Yu Fang, Ziyin Qu, Jiecong Lu, Meggie Cheng,
      and Chenfanfu Jiang. Anisompm: Animating anisotropic damage mechanics: Supplemental
      document. ACM Trans. Graph, 39(4), 2020.
[109] Tianyi Xie, Minchen Li, Yin Yang, and Chenfanfu Jiang. A contact proxy splitting method for
      lagrangian solid-fluid coupling. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 42(4):1–14, 2023.
[110] Tianyi Xie, Zeshun Zong, Yuxin Qiu, Xuan Li, Yutao Feng, Yin Yang, and Chenfanfu Jiang.
      Physgaussian: Physics-integrated 3d gaussians for generative dynamics. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2311.12198, 2023.
[111] Sirui Xu, Zhengyuan Li, Yu-Xiong Wang, and Liang-Yan Gui. Interdiff: Generating 3d
      human-object interactions with physics-informed diffusion. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
      International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 14928–14940, 2023.
[112] Hongwei Xue, Tiankai Hang, Yanhong Zeng, Yuchong Sun, Bei Liu, Huan Yang, Jianlong Fu,
      and Baining Guo. Advancing high-resolution video-language representation with large-scale
      video transcriptions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
      Pattern Recognition, pages 5036–5045, 2022.
[113] Zhuoyi Yang, Jiayan Teng, Wendi Zheng, Ming Ding, Shiyu Huang, Jiazheng Xu, Yuanming
      Yang, Wenyi Hong, Xiaohan Zhang, Guanyu Feng, et al. Cogvideox: Text-to-video diffusion
      models with an expert transformer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.06072, 2024.
[114] Qinghao Ye, Haiyang Xu, Guohai Xu, Jiabo Ye, Ming Yan, Yiyang Zhou, Junyang Wang,
      Anwen Hu, Pengcheng Shi, Yaya Shi, et al. mplug-owl: Modularization empowers large
      language models with multimodality. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.14178, 2023.
[115] Ilker Yildirim, Max H Siegel, Amir A Soltani, Shraman Ray Chaudhuri, and Joshua B
      Tenenbaum. Perception of 3d shape integrates intuitive physics and analysis-by-synthesis.
      Nature Human Behaviour, 8(2):320–335, 2024.
[116] Lijun Yu, José Lezama, Nitesh B Gundavarapu, Luca Versari, Kihyuk Sohn, David Minnen,
      Yong Cheng, Agrim Gupta, Xiuye Gu, Alexander G Hauptmann, et al. Language model beats
      diffusion–tokenizer is key to visual generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.05737, 2023.
[117] Ye Yuan, Jiaming Song, Umar Iqbal, Arash Vahdat, and Jan Kautz. Physdiff: Physics-guided
      human motion diffusion model. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on
      Computer Vision, pages 16010–16021, 2023.


                                                18
[118] Yonghao Yue, Breannan Smith, Christopher Batty, Changxi Zheng, and Eitan Grinspun.
      Continuum foam: A material point method for shear-dependent flows. ACM Transactions on
      Graphics (TOG), 34(5):1–20, 2015.
[119] Tianyuan Zhang, Hong-Xing Yu, Rundi Wu, Brandon Y Feng, Changxi Zheng, Noah Snavely,
      Jiajun Wu, and William T Freeman. Physdreamer: Physics-based interaction with 3d objects
      via video generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.13026, 2024.
[120] Jing Zhou, Zongyu Lin, Yanan Zheng, Jian Li, and Zhilin Yang. Not all tasks are born equal:
      Understanding zero-shot generalization. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning
      Representations, 2022.
[121] Zeshun Zong, Chenfanfu Jiang, and Xuchen Han. A convex formulation of frictional contact
      for the material point method and rigid bodies. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.13783, 2024.
[122] Zeshun Zong, Xuan Li, Minchen Li, Maurizio M Chiaramonte, Wojciech Matusik, Eitan
      Grinspun, Kevin Carlberg, Chenfanfu Jiang, and Peter Yichen Chen. Neural stress fields for
      reduced-order elastoplasticity and fracture. In SIGGRAPH Asia 2023 Conference Papers,
      pages 1–11, 2023.




                                               19
A    Limitations
In this work, we evaluate the physical commonsense capabilities of T2V generative models. Specifi-
cally, we curated the V IDEO P HY dataset, consisting of 688 captions. We argue that the captions are
comprehensive and high-quality after going through our three-stage data curation pipeline. In the
future, it will be pertinent to expand the physical commonsense understanding to more branches of
physics, including projective geometry. Additionally, we test a diverse set of T2V generative models,
including both open and closed models. While it is financially and computationally challenging to
evaluate an exhaustive list of models, we have aimed to incorporate models with diverse architectures,
training datasets, and inference strategies. In the future, it will be important to gain access to and
include new high-performance T2V models in our study.
In addition, we perform human annotations using Amazon Mechanical Turkers (AMT), where most
of the workers primarily belong to the US and Canada. Hence, the human annotations in this work
do not represent the diverse demographics around the globe. As a result, our human annotations
reflect the perceptual biases of the annotators from Western cultures. In the future, it will be pertinent
to assess the impact of diverse groups on our human evaluations. Finally, we acknowledge that
text-to-video generative models can perpetrate societal biases in their generated content [102, 6]. It is
critical that future work quantifies this bias in the generated videos and provides methods for the safe
deployment of the models.

B    Data Licensing
The V IDEO P HY dataset comprises videos generated by various T2V (Text-to-Video) generative
models, detailed in Section C. The licensing terms for these videos will align with those specified by
the respective model owners, as cited in this work. The curated captions and human annotations will
be licensed under the MIT License.

C    Video Generative Models
For the open models, we benchmark Zeroscope [20, 103], a latent diffusion-based text-to-video model
that adapts the text-to-image generative model [86] for video generation by training on high-quality
video and image data for enhanced visual quality. Further, we benchmark LaVIE [105], a cascaded
video latent diffusion model instead of a single diffusion model. Specifically, the LaVIE model
is trained with a specialized curated dataset for enhanced visual quality and diversity. In addition,
we test VideoCrafter2, a latent diffusion T2V model that enhances video generation quality by
training on high-quality image-text data [95]. In our study, we also benchmark OpenSora [75], an
open-source effort to replicate Sora [17], a high-performant closed latent diffusion model that uses
diffusion transformers [77] for text-to-video generation. Finally, we include StableVideoDiffusion
(SVD) [12], a latent diffusion model that can generate high resolution videos conditioned on a text or
image. Since SVD-I2V (Image-to-Video) is publicly available, we utilize that to generate the videos.
Specifically, we utilize SD-XL-Base-1.0 [80] to generate the conditioning images from the captions
in the V IDEO P HY dataset. We term the entire pipeline as SVD-T2I2V.
For the closed models, we include Gen-2 [27], a closed latent video diffusion model from Runway.
In addition, we include Pika [78] with undisclosed information about the underlying generative
model. Specifically, we wrote a custom API to acquire Gen-2 and Pika videos after paying for
their monthly subscription for a total of $225. Finally, we include two versions of the Lumiere
[7] from Google research. Specifically, Lumiere-T2V generates a video conditioned on the text,
while Lumiere-T2I2V generates a video conditioned on an image, that is in-turn generated with the
caption using a text-to-image generative model [87]. CogVideoX [113] is a most recent open-sourced
state-of-the-art video generation models, which uses a MMDiT [28]-like architecture, and achieves
very good text-to-video alignment and video quality performance.

D    Querying GPT-4 for Prompt Generation
In this section we discuss the prompt we utilized to generate all the prompts including three physical
interaction categories: solid-solid, solid-fluid, fluid-fluid for video generation, which is displayed in
Table 6, Table 7 and Table 8.


                                                   20
Develop unique and imaginative captions, each briefly describing the interaction between two different solid materials in a realistic
scene. Each caption should consist of 7-10 words and clearly indicate the solids involved in the action.

Guidelines:

1. Focus on common solids used in everyday scenarios, avoiding rare or seldom-used materials.

2. Exclude actions like ‘celebrating’, ‘arguing’, or ‘laughing’ that do not clearly involve physical interaction between materials.

3. Avoid generating static scenes (e.g., ‘Lid covers pot to retain heat’, ‘Stack of paper sits on the desk’).

4. Avoid adding participle phrases (e.g., ‘sweetening it’, ‘a creamy swirl’, ‘fizzing energetically’) in the caption.

5. The captions should focus on the actions that require contact forces, or friction forces. Do not focus on the actions that require
penetration forces.

6. Format each caption as follows: ‘action’: ACTION, ‘solid 1’: SOLID, ‘solid 2’: SOLID, ‘caption’: CAPTION

Bad Examples Of Captions (Do Not Generate Such Captions):
A diamond scratching glass. ## Scratching action that requires penetration
A key scratches the surface of a wooden table. ## Scratching action that requires penetration

Good Examples Of Captions:
A brick presses down on a metal can.
A snowball falls to the ground and splits apart.
A small red elastic ball stuck to the wall.

                          Figure 6: GPT-4 Prompt to Generate Solid-Solid Captions.




Develop unique and imaginative captions, showcasing interaction between a solid material with a fluid material, for generating a
video. After crafting the caption, list the entities that act as solid and fluid in the caption.

Guidelines:

1. Focus on common solids and fluids used in everyday scenarios, avoiding rare or seldom-used materials.

2. Exclude actions like ‘celebrating’, ‘arguing’, or ‘laughing’ that do not clearly involve physical interaction between materials.

3. Avoid actions that execute state change from solid to fluid or vice-versa.

4. Avoid generating static scenes (e.g., ‘Lid covers pot to retain heat’).

5. Avoid adding participle phrases (e.g., ‘sweetening it’, ‘a creamy swirl’, ‘fizzing energetically’) in the caption.

6. The captions should focus on the actions that require contact forces, or friction forces. Do not focus on the actions that require
penetration forces.

7. Format each caption as follows: ‘action’: ACTION, ‘solid’: SOLID, ‘fluid’: FLUID, ‘caption’: CAPTION

Bad Examples Of Captions (Do Not Generate Such Captions):
Sugar dissolves in water. ## dissolving action will not be visible in video
Sulfuric acid corroding metal. ## corrosion will not be visible in video
Water boiling in a pot. ## boiling action will not be visible in video

Good Examples Of Captions:
A dam break releases a massive flood.
An iron rod falls into the water.
A metal spoon stirs the honey in a cup.

                          Figure 7: GPT-4 Prompt to Generate Solid-Fluid Captions.




                                                                  21
 Develop unique and imaginative captions, each briefly describing the interaction between two different fluid materials in a realistic
 scene. Each caption should consist of 7-10 words and clearly indicate the fluids involved in the action.

 Guidelines:

 1. Focus on common fluids used in everyday scenarios, avoiding rare or seldom-used materials.

 2. Exclude actions like ‘celebrating’, ‘arguing’, or ‘laughing’ that do not clearly involve physical interaction between materials.

 3. Avoid generating static scenes (e.g., ‘Lid covers pot to retain heat’).

 4. Avoid adding participle phrases (e.g., ‘sweetening it’, ‘a creamy swirl’, ‘fizzing energetically’) in the caption.

 5. The captions should focus on the actions that require mixing and laying for liquid-liquid interactions, or some contact forces
 between liquid and gas.

 6. Format each caption as follows: ‘action’: ACTION, ‘fluid 1’: FLUID, ‘fluid 2’: FLUID, ‘caption’: CAPTION

 Bad Examples Of Captions (Do Not Generate Such Captions):
 Juice solidifies around water in ice trays. ## solidification won’t be visible in the video
 Sugar disappears into stirring water. ## dissolving won‘t be visible in the video An acid and a base react to neutralize each other,
 forming water. ## chemical reactions are not visible in the video

 Good Examples Of Captions:
 The wind creating ripples across the surface of the lake.
 Milk falls into a transparent cup of water.
 Oil falls into a transparent cup of water.

                           Figure 8: GPT-4 Prompt to Generate Fluid-Fluid Captions.


E    Human Annotation Screenshot
We display the screenshot of our human annotation system in Figure 9




                          Figure 9: The screenshot of the human annotation interface.


F    V IDEO C ON details
We prompt V IDEO C ON to generate a text response (Yes/No) conditioned on the multimodal template
Tt (x) for semantic adherence and physical commonsense tasks. Formally,
                                         
                                            TSA (V, C), t = SA
                                Tt (x) =                                                      (1)
                                            TP C (V ),   t = PC
where t is either semantic adherence to the caption or physical commonsense task, C is the condition-
ing caption and V is the generated video for the caption C. We provide the multimodal templates


                                                                   22
(TSA (V, C), TP C (V )). We compute the score from the V IDEO C ON model pθ :
                                                       pθ (Yes|Tt (x))
                              sθ (Tt (x)) =                                    ,                             (2)
                                              pθ (Yes|Tt (x)) + pθ (No|Tt (x))
where pθ (Yes|Tt (x)) is the probability of ‘Yes’ conditioned on Tt (x), and t ∈ {SA, P C}. 8
We present the prompts used for the GPT4V, Gemini-1.5-Pro-Vision, VideoCon baselines, and
V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS for semantic adherence evaluation in Figure 10 and physical commonsense
alignment in Figure 11.

             Semantic adherence:

             Given: V (Video), T (Caption)

             Instruction (I): [V] Does this video entail the description [T]?
             Response (R): Yes or No
            Figure 10: Template used assessing semantic adherence for a generated video.


             Physical Commonsense:

             Given: V (Video)

             Instruction (I): [V] Does this video follow physical laws?
             Response (R): Yes or No
Figure 11: Template for assessing physical commonsense. We note that the physical commonsense is
independent of the conditioning caption. Hence, it is not present in this template.


G       Fine-Grained Diversity Analysis
In this section, we visualize the fine-grained statistics of collections across different physical interac-
tion categories (Figure 12 - Figure 14).

H       Results for Task complexity
We compare the performance of various video generative models across different task complexity in
Table 6.

I       Fine-Grained Results
In this section, we report the fine-grained performance of semantic adherence and physical com-
monsense scores from all video generation models and compute the scores across different physical
interaction categories (solid-solid, solid-fluid and fluid-fluid), as well as difficulty levels (0 and 1).

J       Automatic Evaluation Baselines
Similar to [4], we utilize the capability of GPT-4Vision [74] to reason over multiple images in a
zero-shot manner. Specifically, we prompt the GPT-4V model with the caption and 8 video frames
sampled uniformly from the generated video. Here, we instruct the model to provide the semantic
    8
    As a large video multimodal model, V IDEO C ON predicts a token distribution over the entire token vocabulary
conditioned on the multimodal template. Therefore, pθ (Yes|Tt (x)) + pθ (No|Tt (x)) is not equal to 1.


                                                       23
Figure 12: Top 20 most frequently occurring verbs (inner circle) and their top 4 direct nouns (outer
circle) in our curated captions that consists of interaction between solid-solid states of matter.




Figure 13: Top 20 most frequently occurring verbs (inner circle) and their top 4 direct nouns (outer
circle) in our curated captions that consists of interaction between solid-fluid states of matter.


adherence (0 or 1) and physical commonsense score (0 or 1). Since GPT-4V does not process videos
natively, we assess the automatic evaluation using Gemini-Pro-Vision-1.5, which can input the
caption and the entire generated video. Specifically, we instruct it to provide the semantic adherence
(0 or 1) and physical commonsense (0 or 1) of the input video, identical to the GPT-4V analysis. We
provide the prompts used in the experiments in Figure 10 and 11.

K    Inference Details
We add the inference configurations for different video generation models in Table 9.

L    Training Details for V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS
To create V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS, we use low-rank adaptation (LoRA) [37] of the V IDEO C ON applied
to all the layers of the attention blocks including QKVO, gate, up and down projection matrices. We
set the LoRA r = 32 and α = 32 and dropout = 0.05. The finetuning is performed for 5 epochs using
Adam [43] optimizer with a linear warmup of 50 steps followed by linear decay. Similar to [3], we
chose the peak learning rate as 1e − 4. We utilized 2 A6000 GPUs with the total batch size of 32. In


                                                 24
Figure 14: Top 20 most frequently occurring verbs (inner circle) and their top 4 direct nouns (outer
circle) in curated captions that consists of interaction between fluid-fluid states of matter.



Table 6: Fine-grained performance across caption complexity using human evaluation. We find
that T2V models struggle more on the harder captions than the easier captions in both the semantic
adherence (SA) and physical commonsense (PC) metrics.
                                             Easy (%)       Hard (%)
                         Model               SA     PC      SA     PC
                         Open Models
                         CogVideoX-5B 63.8 55.3 62.5 50.3
                         VideoCrafter2      53.4 38.1 42.6 30.3
                         CogVideoX-2B 51.1 38.3 42.6 29.0
                         LaVIE              51.9 31.2 44.8 24.0
                         SVD-T2I2V          41.8 37.6 43.2 22.6
                         ZeroScope          32.3 33.9 27.7 31.0
                         OpenSora           20.1 25.4 5.2 21.3
                         Closed Model
                         Pika               45.7 39.9 35.1 32.1
                         Dream Machine 65.2 29.4 57.8 12.5
                         Lumiere-T2I2V 56.6 29.1 38.7 20.0
                         Lumiere-T2V        38.6 34.9 38.1 19.4
                         Gen-2              26.6 31.8 26.6 21.6




addition, we finetune our model with 32 frames in the video and the frames are resized to 224 × 224
by image processor. Similar to [68, 114], we create 32 segments of the video, and sample the middle
frame for each segment.



M    Automatic and Human Leaderboard

We compute the physical commonsense and semantic adherence scores for the models on the testing
set using V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS. Subsequently, we take their average and create a rankings of the
models. We have a similar ranking of the models using the joint performance metrics (SA=1, PC=1)
from human evaluation. We present the human and automatic leaderboard for the open and closed
models in Table 10.


                                                25
Table 7: Fine-grained performance of T2V models for the interaction between diverse states of matter
using human evaluation. Ideally, we want the T2V models to achieve a high score on the SA = 1
and PC = 1 metric while reduce the score on the SA=0 and PC=0, SA=1 and PC=0, and SA=0 and
PC=1 metrics.
       Source       Category      SA (%)   PC (%)   SA=1 and PC=1 (%)      SA=1 and PC=0 (%)   SA=0 and PC=1 (%)   SA=0 and PC=0 (%)
                                                                 Open Models
                    Fluid-Fluid    61.8     43.6          18.2                   18.2                18.2                20.0
 CogVideoX-5B       Solid-Fluid    76.6     59.3          53.1                   23.4                 6.2                17.2
                    Solid-Solid    50.3     24.5          25.9                   18.9                18.9                30.8
                    Fluid-Fluid    34.5     47.3          25.5                    9.1                21.8                43.6
 CogVideoX-2B       Solid-Fluid    56.2     34.9          21.9                   34.2                13.0                30.8
                    Solid-Solid    43.0     28.2          12.7                   30.3                15.5                41.5
                    Fluid-Fluid    69.1     43.6          34.5                   34.5                 9.1                21.8
       LaVIE        Solid-Fluid    52.1     30.8          15.8                   36.3                15.1                32.9
                    Solid-Solid    37.3     19.0           8.5                   28.9                10.6                52.1
                    Fluid-Fluid    12.7     27.3           7.3                    5.5                20.0                67.3
     OpenSora       Solid-Fluid    30.1     21.9           7.5                   22.6                14.4                55.5
                    Solid-Solid     7.7     23.8           1.4                    6.3                22.4                69.9
                    Fluid-Fluid    69.1     43.6          32.7                   36.4                10.9                20.0
    VideoCrafter2   Solid-Fluid    57.5     41.8          27.4                   30.1                14.4                28.1
                    Solid-Solid    31.5     23.8           4.9                   26.6                18.9                49.7
                    Fluid-Fluid    58.2     34.5          18.2                   40.0                16.4                25.5
    SVD-T2I2V       Solid-Fluid    52.7     32.9          17.1                   35.6                15.8                25.5
                    Solid-Solid    25.9     27.3           4.2                   21.7                23.1                51.0
                    Fluid-Fluid    36.4     47.3          20.0                   16.4                27.3                36.4
     ZeroScope      Solid-Fluid    40.4     37.0          14.4                   26.0                22.6                37.0
                    Solid-Solid    17.5     22.4           6.3                   11.2                16.1                66.4
                                                             Closed Models
                    Fluid-Fluid    76.4     10.9           9.1                   67.3                 1.8                21.8
 Dream Machine      Solid-Fluid    68.1     23.6          16.7                   51.4                 6.9                25.0
                    Solid-Solid    50.0     24.3          12.1                   37.9                12.1                37.9
                    Fluid-Fluid    37.7     26.4          15.1                   22.6                11.3                50.9
       Gen-2        Solid-Fluid    38.5     18.5           8.1                   30.4                10.4                51.1
                    Solid-Solid     8.9     37.1           4.0                   4.8                 33.1                58.1
                    Fluid-Fluid    45.4     34.5           9.1                   36.4                25.5                29.1
    Lumiere-T2V     Solid-Fluid    47.2     26.0           9.6                   37.7                16.4                36.3
                    Solid-Solid    26.5     27.3           8.4                   18.2                18.9                54.5
                    Fluid-Fluid    49.5     21.8          10.9                   38.2                10.9                40.0
 Lumiere-T2I2V      Solid-Fluid    59.6     26.0          17.1                   42.5                 8.9                31.5
                    Solid-Solid    37.1     25.2           8.4                   28.7                16.8                46.2
                    Fluid-Fluid    68.0     58.0          44.0                   24.0                14.0                18.0
        Pika        Solid-Fluid    46.5     27.9          16.3                   30.2                11.6                41.9
                    Solid-Solid    24.8     36.8          13.6                   11.2                23.2                52.0




N       Applications of V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS

In this work, we propose V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS, an auto-evaluator that judges the semantic adherence
and physical commonsense of the generated videos for a given caption. Here, we describe the
potential usecases of the model for future work.

Video Generative Model Selection: The ability to perform model verification on downstream tasks
cheaply and reliably is critical. In this regard, the model builders can utilize V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS to
evaluate their candidate models on the V IDEO P HY dataset at scale. The top candidate models can
then be evaluated with the human workers for more accurate evaluation.

Data Filtering: With the advent of foundation models that are trained on the internet data, high-
quality filtering has emerged as a crucial step in the pipeline [31, 120]. Here, the data builders can
utilize V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS to filter low-quality video-text data that lacks in semantic adherence
and physical commonsense.

Post-training: Recently, aligning the generative models with human or AI feedback has become
pivotal for high-quality generations [88, 83, 5, 101, 56]. Here, the post-training pipeline of the video
generative models can leverage the V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS model as an reward model that provides
feedback to the model generated content. Subsequently, this feedback can be utilized to refine the
model for better generations.


                                                                    26
Table 8: Fine-grained performance of T2V models for the complexity of the captions using human
evaluation. Ideally, we want the T2V models to achieve a high score on the SA = 1 and PC = 1 metric
while reduce the score on the SA=0 and PC=0, SA=1 and PC=0, and SA=0 and PC=1 metrics.
     Source       Category   SA (%)   PC (%)    SA=1 and PC=1 (%)       SA=1 and PC=0 (%)    SA=0 and PC=1 (%)    SA=0 and PC=0 (%)
                                                             Open Models
                   EASY       63.8     40.9           22.9                     14.4                14.4                  21.8
 CogVideoX-5B
                   HARD       62.6     38.1           24.5                     12.3                12.3                  25.2
                   EASY       51.1     38.3           20.7                     17.6                17.6                  31.4
 CogVideoX-2B
                   HARD       42.6     29.0           16.1                     12.9                12.9                  44.5
                   EASY       51.9     31.2           19.6                     32.3                11.6                  36.5
      LaVIE
                   HARD       44.8     24.0           11.0                     33.8                13.0                  42.2
                   EASY       20.1     25.4            4.8                     15.3                20.6                  59.3
    OpenSora
                   HARD       15.5     21.3            5.2                     10.3                16.1                  68.4
                   EASY       53.4     38.1           21.2                     32.3                16.9                  29.6
  VideoCrafter2
                   HARD       42.6     30.3           16.1                     26.5                14.2                  43.2
                   EASY       42.0     38.0           16.0                     25.0                21.0                  37.0
    SVD-T2I2V
                   HARD       43.0     23.0            6.0                     37.0                16.0                  41.0
                   EASY       32.3     33.9           13.8                     18.5                20.1                  47.6
    ZeroScope
                   HARD       27.7     31.0            9.7                     18.1                21.3                  51.0
                                                             Closed Models
                   EASY       65.2     29.4           19.8                     45.5                 9.6                  25.1
 Dream Machine
                   HARD       57.9     12.5           5.9                      52.0                 6.6                  35.5
                   EASY       26.6     31.8           10.4                     16.2                21.4                  52.0
      Gen-2
                   HARD       26.6     21.6            4.3                     22.3                17.3                  56.1
                   EASY       38.6     34.9           11.1                     27.5                23.8                  37.6
  Lumiere-T2V
                   HARD       38.1     19.3            6.5                     31.6                12.9                  49.0
                   EASY       56.6     29.1           16.4                     40.2                12.7                  30.7
 Lumiere-T2I2V
                   HARD       38.7     20.0            7.7                     31.0                12.3                  49.0
                   EASY       45.7     39.9           23.7                     22.0                16.2                  38.2
      Pika
                   HARD       35.1     32.1           14.5                     20.6                17.6                  47.3




Table 9: Inference details for models in our testbed. Here, NA indicates that the information is not
available for the closed models.
 Model                Resolution      # of Video Frames        Guidance Scale         Sampling Steps          Noise Scheduler
 Open Models
 CogVideoX            480 × 720                25                      7.5                   50                DDPM [35]
 ZeroScope            320 × 576                32                        9                   50           DPMSolverMultiStep [66]
 VideoCrafter2        320 × 512                32                       12                   50                DDIM [93]
 LaVIE                320 × 512                32                      7.5                   50                DDPM [35]
 OpenSora             240 × 426                32                        7                  100               IDDPM [71]
 SVD-T2I2V            1024 × 576               25                     (1, 3)                25              EulerDiscrete [41]
 Closed Models
 Lumiere-T2V         1024 × 1024               80                       8                   256                     NA
 Lumiere-T2I2V       1024 × 1024               80                       6                   256                     NA
 Gen-2               720 × 1280                32                      8.5                  100                     NA
 Dream Machine        1280 × 720               24                      NA                   NA                      NA
 Pika                640 × 1088                72                      12                   NA                      NA



O      Correlation with video quality and motion
There are several works that focus on assessing the generated video quality and motions [40, 63].
Here, we aim to assess the correlation between the semantic adherence and physical commonsense
scores and these metrics. Specifically, we calculate the video quality using LAION aesthetic classifier
[50] and video motion using the RAFT optical flow model [97]. Subsequently, we calculate the
pearson correlation between video quality and motion with physical commonsense and semantic
adherence. We present the results in Table 11.
We find that physical commonsense and semantic adherence are correlated positively with the video
quality, albeit the correlation is not very strong. In addition, we find that physical commonsense and
semantic adherence are negatively correlated with the video motions. This indicates that the video
models tend to make more mistakes in the semantic adherence and physical commonsense when
more motions are depicted in them. In this work, we consider a wide breadth of video generative
models – open and closed. The closed models (Dream Machine/Gen-2/Pika) contribute to the higher
end of the video quality while open models (Zeroscope/OpenSora) contribute to the lower end. While


                                                                 27
Table 10: Human and Automatic leaderboard for open and closed video generative models. We
compute the joint performance metrics (SA = 1, PC = 1) from human evaluation, and average the SA
and PC scores from automatic evaluation to construct the leaderboard. The models are ranked from
best to worst (descending order). We find that the automatic leaderboard reliably tracks the human
leaderboard.
                    Open models                                 Closed models
          Human         V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS          Human         V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS
      CogVideoX-5B          CogVideoX-5B                Pika             Dream Machine
       VideoCrafter2        VideoCrafter2          Dream Machine         Lumiere-T2I2V
      CogVideoX-2B              LaVIE              Lumiere-T2I2V           SVD-T2I2V
          LaVIE             CogVideoX-2B            Lumiere-T2V                Pika
        SVD-T2I2V            SVD-T2I2V                  Gen-2                 Gen-2
         ZeroScope            ZeroScope                   -                      -
         OpenSora             OpenSora                    -                      -


the high quality is ‘correlated’ with the better physical commonsense, we note that the absolute
performance of the models is quite poor on our benchmark. For instance, Gen-2 achieves the one of
the highest video quality score (5.8 on LAION aesthetics classifier) but has a poor semantic adherence
and physical commonsense score of 7.6 (Table 3).


Table 11: Correlation between video quality (Aesthetics) and optical flow (motion) with physical
commonsense and semantic adherence over V IDEO P HY dataset.
                       Metrics                              Correlation
                       Aesthetics-Physical Commonsense           0.3
                       Aesthetics-Semantic Adherence             0.5
                       Motion-Physical Commonsense              -0.8
                       Motion-Semantic Adherence                -0.1


P    Finetuning video model with VideoPhy data
This work is centered around physical commonsense evaluation, and we trained an automatic evaluator
(V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS) using the training set. Here, we assess whether V IDEO P HY training set
instances can also be used for finetuning video models. Specifically, we finetune Lumiere-T2I2V
model on the instances from the training set of V IDEO P HY which achieve a score of 1 on physical
commonsense and a score of 1 on semantic adherence. In total, there are 1000 such (video, caption)
pairs in the dataset. Post-finetuning, we generate the videos for the test prompts and evaluate them
using our automatic evaluator, V IDEO C ON -P HYSICS.


Table 12: Finetuning Lumiere-T2I2V with the (video, text) pairs that achieve joint performance
score of 1 (i.e., PC = 1 and SA = 1) in the train set of V IDEO P HY data. While the training set of
the V IDEO P HY was primarily collected for training an automatic evaluator, we test whether it can
also improve the video generative models itself.
                        Model                         SA     PC Average
                        Lumiere-T2I2V-Pretrained       46     25       35
                        Lumiere-T2I2V-Finetuned 36.5 24.6             30.5

We present the results in Table 12. We find that the semantic adherence (video-text alignment) reduces
by a large margin and physical commonsense remains unchanged after finetuning. This can be due to
several factors: (a) the number of training samples is not enough, (b) optimization difficulties since
the training videos are generated from several generative models (mix of on-policy and off-policy
videos), and (c) vanilla finetuning being a bad algorithm for learning from these samples. Since
post-training of video generative models is a less explored direction, there can be many ways to
improve the generative model’s physical commonsense. Future work will focus on training better
physical commonsense models using the insights provided in our work.


                                                 28
Q    More Qualitative Examples of Poor Physical Commonsense
We present more examples from each generative model where one or more physical laws are violated
in Figure 15 - Figure 26.




                            (a) A paddle mixes wet cement in a bucket




                     (b) A whisk whips cream to a perfect fluffy consistency




                             (c) Hands rub luscious lotion on dry skin




                          (d) The net catches the fast-moving soccer ball




                            (e) Yogurt merging with strawberry puree

Figure 15: Unphysical Generated Examples of LaVIE. (a) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation: the
metal spoon should not deform; Nonphysical Penetration: the spoon unnaturally passes through the
liquid. (b) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation: the whisk exhibits abnormal shape deformation. (c)
Solid Constitutive Laws Violation: the two hands show abnormal shape deformation; Nonphysical
Penetration: fingers penetrate each other; Conservation of Mass Violation: the geometry (plus texture)
of the two hands are inconsistent over time. (d) Conservation of Mass Violation: the geometry (plus
texture) of the soccer is inconsistent over time; Newton’s Second Law Violation: the soccer does
not fall under gravity. (e) Conservation of Mass Violation: the volume of yogurt in the cup does not
increase as more yogurt is added.




                                                 29
                     (a) A blender spins, mixing squeezed juice within it




                       (b) A teaspoon stirs sugar into a cup of coffee




                             (c) Hand flipping open book cover




                           (d) Soap washes grime off dirty hands




                     (e) Water pouring from a watering can onto plants

Figure 16: Unphysical Generated Examples of Gen-2. (a) Conservation of Mass Violation: the
volume of juice in the blender increases over time without new substances being added. (b) Solid
Constitutive Laws Violation: the metal spoon should not deform. (c) Conservation of Mass Violation:
the volume of the book increases over time; Nonphysical Penetration: the fingers pass through the
book. (d) Nonphysical Penetration: fingers penetrate into each other. (e) Newton’s Second Law
Violation: the flowing water appears to be static, ignoring the effect of gravity.


R    Examples from diverse states of matter and complexity
We present a few qualitative examples highlighting instances of good physical commonsense and bad
physical commonsense in Figure 27-Figure 29.




                                                30
                             (a) A foot crushing an empty soda can




                           (b) A spinning wheel sprays muddy water




                 (c) Mustard squirting out of a plastic bottle onto a hotdog




                         (d) Plastic frisbee lands on a lush grass lawn




                                  (e) Pouring milk into still tea

Figure 17: Unphysical Generated Examples of VideoCrafter2. (a) Newton’s Second Law Violation:
the metal can deforms without being pressed. (b) Newton’s Second Law Violation: Water splashes
while the rolling wheel remains static. (c) Newton’s Second Law Violation: the bottle floats in the air,
ignoring the effect of gravity; Fluid Constitutive Law Violation: the dripping and flowing of mustard
are unnatural. (d) Conservation of Mass Violation: the geometry (plus texture) of the frisbee is not
consistent over time. (e) Conservation of Mass Violation: the total volume of milk in the glass does
not increase as more milk is poured into; Nonphysical Penetration: milk penetrates the glass.




                                                  31
                     (a) A futuristic hoverboard hovers just above the water




                            (b) A swimmer splashing in the sea water




                          (c) Frog leaping from one lilypad to another




                        (d) Plastic fidget spinner rotating on rubber mat




                  (e) The eraser rubs against the paper, removing pencil marks

Figure 18: Unphysical Generated Examples of ZeroScope. (a) Newton’s Second Law Violation:
the motion of the hoverboard does not satisfy the momentum equation. (b) Newton’s Second Law
Violation: the motion of the arm of the swimmer is unnatural. (c) Conservation of Mass Violation:
the geometry (texture) of the frog is inconsistent over time. (d) Newton’s First Law Violation: the
velocity of the fidget spinner changes despite being in a balanced state. (e) Solid Constitutive Laws
Violation: the paper is torn apart without external forces but recovers later.




                                                 32
                      (a) A blender spins, mixing squeezed juice within it




                       (b) A car gliding over a road slick with rainwater




                       (c) A shaker mixes a delightful cocktail at the bar




                    (d) A shiny coin takes a dive into a clear water fountain




                          (e) A stroller wheels through a large puddle

Figure 19: Unphysical Generated Examples of OpenSora. (a) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation:
the metal blender should not deform. (b) Newton’s Second Law Violation: the car moves backward,
violating the momentum equation (c) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation: the metal spoon deforms
when stirring the cocktail. (d) Newton’s First Law Violation: the coin moves on the ground back and
forth without horizontal forces. (e) Conservation of Mass Violation: the left rear wheel disappears
over time.




                                                33
                        (a) A perfume bottle spritzes fragrance into the air




                              (b) Lemon juice drops splash into water




                             (c) Loose sneaker swings on dangling foot




                            (d) Detergent flowing into a bucket of water




                     (e) The screwdriver tightens the metal screw in the wood

Figure 20: Unphysical Generated Examples of SVD-T2I2V. (a) Newton’s Second Law Violation:
the perfume spreads back and forth, violating the momentum equation. (b) Newton’s Second Law
Violation: the water drops float in the air, ignoring gravity. (c) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation: the
leg exhibits unnatural deformation. (d) Newton’s Second Law Violation: the water flows upward into
the air without external forces. (e) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation: the screwdriver head deforms
unnaturally.




                                                   34
                         (a) Plastic fidget spinner rotating on rubber mat




                              (b) Clasping a necklace around a neck




                      (c) A whisk churns heavy cream into whipped cream




                        (d) A sailboat cuts through the choppy sea waves




                       (e) A diver plunges headlong into a sparkling pool

Figure 21: Unphysical Generated Examples of Pika. (a) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation: the fidget
spinner should not deform. (b) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation: the necklace should not deform.
(c) Conservation of Mass Violation: the volume of cream increases over time without additional input.
(d) Fluid constitutive Law Violation: unnatural waves on the sea surface. (e) Solid Constitutive Law
Violation: one diving shoe splits into two and detaches from the feet.




                                                 35
                           (a) A spoon stirs a pot of vegetable soup




                  (b) A whisk spins in the egg mixture, mixing it thoroughly




                           (c) Coin spins rapidly on a wooden table




                           (d) Squeezing lemon drops into warm tea




                                (e) Tea accepts stream of milk

Figure 22: Unphysical Generated Examples of Lumiere-T2V. (a) Conservation of Mass Violation:
the vegetable appears on the spoon out of nowhere. (b) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation: the whisk
should not deform. (c) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation: the coin splits into two and then merges
back into one. (d) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation: the lemon shows an unnatural appearance
change; Fluid Constitutive Laws Violation: the lemon juice appears like static glue. (e) Nonphysical
Penetration: the tea flows through the cup.




                                                36
                          (a) A drum vibrating from the beating stick




                      (b) A leaf falls delicately into a slow-moving river




                          (c) A wooden spoon stirring soup in a pot




                                   (d) Hand folds the paper




                            (e) Skateboard glides on the pavement

Figure 23: Unphysical Generated Examples of Lumiere-T2I2V. (a) Solid Constitutive Laws Violation:
the drum stick head should not deform (b) Newton’s Second Law Violation: the leaf floats in the
air, ignoring gravity. (c) Conservation of Mass Violation: the vegetable appears on the spoon out
of nowhere. (d) Nonphysical Penetration: hands penetrate each other. (e) Solid Constitutive Laws
Violation: one leg on the skateboard transforms into a person.




                                               37
                            (a) A diver splashing into the pool water




                                    (b) Peeler peels an apple




                                 (c) Shoveling sand into a bucket




                           (d) The pickaxe digs into the hard grounds




                      (e) The rock topples the carefully stacked pile of cans

Figure 24: Unphysical Generated Examples of CogVideoX-2B. a) Newton’s Second Law Violation:
the splash appears without any external force, violating the principle of momentum conservation.
(b) Solid Constitutive Law Violation: the apple undergoes deformation, which should not occur.
(c) Conservation of Mass Violation: the sand’s volume changes over time without the addition
of new material. (d) Conservation of Mass Violation: the geometry and texture of the pickaxe
change inconsistently over time. (e) Solid Constitutive Law Violation: the cans exhibit unnatural
deformations.




                                               38
                            (a) A spinning wheel sprays muddy water




                      (b) Dominoes toppling one after another on the table




                           (c) Leather glove catching a hard baseball




                              (d) Milk blending seamlessly into tea




                         (e) The net catches the fast-moving soccer ball

Figure 25: Unphysical Generated Examples of CogVideoX-5B. (a) Newton’s Second Law Violation:
the wave dynamics are discontinuous over time, violating the momentum conservation principle. (b)
Conservation of Mass Violation: the geometry and texture of the dominoes change inconsistently
over time. (c) Solid Constitutive Law Violation: the leather glove exhibits unnatural deformations.
(d) Conservation of Mass Violation: the volume of tea remains unchanged despite the addition of
milk to the glass cup. (e) Solid Constitutive Law Violation: the soccer ball displays unnatural and
discontinuous deformations over time.




                                                39
                     (a) A brave diver splashes into a pool from a great height




                            (b) Coin flicking into a sparkling fountain




                              (c) Metal grinder crushing coffee beans




                           (d) Oil cascades into vinegar for vinaigrette




                                 (e) Water streams into fresh juice

Figure 26: Unphysical Generated Examples of Dream Machine. (a) Newton’s Second Law Violation:
the diver floats in mid-air, defying gravity. (b) Newton’s Second Law Violation: the coin hovers,
disregarding gravitational forces. (c) Conservation of Mass Violation: numerous coffee beans appear
spontaneously without a source. (d) Nonphysical Penetration: oil and vinegar pass through the glass
cup. (e) Conservation of Mass Violation: the juice volume remains unchanged despite the addition of
water.




                                                40
                           PC = 0                                              PC = 1




Easy     (a) Rain creates concentric ripples in water.           (c) Rain splashing on a still pond.




       (b) Water droplet bouncing on a water surface.           (d) Raindrops disturb quiet puddles.




Hard         (e) Juice and fizz shake in a bottle.            (g) Perfume mist diffusing through the air.




          (f) Yogurt merging with strawberry puree.                 (h) Pouring milk into still tea.

Figure 27: Qualitative examples in the fluid-fluid category. Videos in the left column have a majority
PC score of 0, while videos in the right column have a majority PC score of 1. (a) The central ripple
does not vanish even in absence of raindrops. (b) The water droplet is floating upwards, defying
gravity. (e) The total volume of juice is increasing. (f) The color of the yogurt is not consistent over
time.




                                                         41
                               PC = 0                                                   PC = 1




Easy
       (a) The wristwatch knob winds the inner spring tightly.       (c) Cloth banner hanging from wooden twig.




                     (b) Tying a rope to a pole.                 (d) Wooden swing dangles over the sand in the sandpit.




Hard    (e) Darts lands in the middle of the cork dartboard.           (g) Metal grinder crushing coffee beans.




                  (f) Ripping paper sheet by hand.                          (h) Shoveling sand into a bucket.

Figure 28: Qualitative examples in the solid-solid category. Videos in the left column have a majority
PC score of 0, while videos in the right column have a majority PC score of 1. (a) The hands of the
clock have illogical motion. (b) One piece of the robe disappears. (e) The geometry and texture of
the dart are not consistent over time. (f) The total volume of the sheet of paper is not consistent over
time.




                                                           42
                              PC = 0                                                PC = 1




Easy   (a) A toy duck floats on a tranquil neighborhood pond.       (c) A leaf floating on the stream water.




         (b) Chopsticks dipping a sushi roll into soy sauce.     (d) A small paper boat drifts along a stream.




Hard       (e) Feet kick and splash about in a rain puddle.     (g) A wine bottle pours a red blend into a glass.




        (f) Water spraying from a garden hose onto plants.        (h) Foot kicks water in the swimming pool.

Figure 29: Qualitative examples in the fluid-fluid category. Videos in the left column have a majority
PC score of 0, while videos in the right column have a majority PC score of 1. (a) The geometry and
color of the duck head changes over time. (b) One chopstick appears from nowhere. (e) One leg
appears from nowhere. (f) The geometry and texture of the leaves are not consistent over time.




                                                          43
